---title: Redbull Minidrome Ridevisible: true---<div>
  When I saw the posting on the Canadian Cyclist website that the Redbull Minidrome was coming to Toronto, my first thought was to go watch the fun. The more of thought about it, the more I was thinking, as a guy that rides the Forest City Velodrome, I should ride it. The Forest City Velodrome is smallest indoor track in the world at 138m on the black line. I never expect to win anything at the Redbull event because some of the bike couriers and trials riders in the city are far better bike handlers that I am. My only goal was to get a photo on that tiny track. Arguably, the Forest City Velodrome can no longer claim to be the smallest track.<br /><br />On the Friday before the event, I went over to register at one of the local fixie bike shops. On the Saturday, I packed up my track bike and rollers. I wore my Vitess Racing kit. I figured the change of my crashing on that track was very high. A friend of mine gave me 4-1 odds of crashing. If he told me beforehard, I would have bet against myself. I expected to crash.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />I brought the rollers with me for nothing else other than to spin while I was waiting for my time on the Minidrome. I figured I would get some sort of workout in. As it would have it, the media loved it and took photos and video of me on the rollers. I was also asked to pose for a photo in my kit. I was one of the few in a road style kit. Most of the guys were in street clothes.<br /><br />When it came to my turn on the track, I passed my bike over the track, and jump in. We were given six laps as a "warm up". Basically, an opportunity to try the track out before the time trial. I had also been practicing starts in the back of the complex because I knew we had 4 metres before we jumped on the pedals to the first corner. Without enough speed, down you go! It worked. I managed to roll around the track slowly. I did about 5 laps before I stopped and reset for the time trial. I did my ten laps fine. Nothing fast. I was pushing a large gear (48/18). I came unclipped some three times but didn't panic and just clipped in again. 10 laps took 52 seconds. As it turned out, that was a slow time. I found that any time to go faster with the gearing threw me up the track so I had to slow up on one corner. But, I rolled around the track without incident. The best time was about 30 seconds for 10 laps. I place 59th of 69 finishers. There were some 15 people that DNF's because they crashed out. Because I did not make the top 32, I didn't get a second chance to ride the track, but I came back in the evening to watch the pusuit style race. That would have been a blast.<br /><br />It was a good experience. I want one of these for my back yard.<br /><br />Video:<br />[vimeo]30368065[/vimeo]<br /><br />Photos:<br /><a target="_blank" title="Link to Photos" href="http://photos.hackcycling.ca/minidrome/">LINK TO PHOTOS</a><br /><br />Thanks to Jim D for the video and Robyn M. for womaning my camera.<br /><br /><a target="_blank" title="Redbull Toronto Minidrome Highlight Real" href="http://www.redbull.ca/cs/Satellite/en_CA/Video/Red-Bull-Mini-Drome-Mayhem-Highlights-From-Toronto-021243101057744">LINK TO Redbull Highlight Video</a><br /><br />
</div>