---title: BIXI: What an experience. Not.visible: true---Ok. I have to admit, as a cyclist, some facination with the idea of renting a bike, riding it somewhere, parking it without worrying about locking it up, etc.. The BIXI system was setup in Toronto early this month and I've been seeing the bikes around the downtown core. Given I work downtown, and I would never use my own bikes to ride around and lockup, I have considered a subscription. Now, I think I will pass on the idea.

I had some running around to do after work today. I had drove into the office because I had somewhere to go afterwards, so I though for the $5 rental fee, I would try these bikes.

Well, I cannot say the system is flawless. The first stop was outside my office building. I slid in my credit card into the BIXI station and I was asked for my phone number. I could not punch my phone number in. The stupid keypad would not work. So, I gave up and walked to my destination thinking I would find another BiXI location. So, when I almost got to my destination, I found a station. University Ave is one of the largest street downtown, but is underserviced by BIXI. Go figure. This time, I managed to enter my phone number and grabbed a bike.

Wow. I can not believe people actually buy and ride bikes likes things thing. It must wieght 50lbs and the gearing is terrible. When you are used to riding at 30km/h without breathing hard, it is hard to ride at 15km/h and pedalling like mad. Sprinting out of the saddle? Don't bother...the bike will tip over. Perhaps people that ride at 15km/h never sprint out of the saddle,&nbsp; but these things handle like block of lead.

I managed to park the bike next to my destination. However, when I came back out to grab another bike, it was not to be had. One bike remained, and the stupid system would not accept my unlock code. I gave up and walked to my destination...and arrived with one minute to spare. The return trip to the office was less eventful. I managed to figure out how to untock the bike after a few tries. It appears you have to actually wait for the unlock ticket to drop before it's valid. Reading the code on the screen isn't good enough.

I rode back to the office as fast I could. If I hit 20km/h I was lucky - and it was work....and I was riding downhill. These bikes are not meant to go fast. You are meant to ride them are a lumbering pace. But it is a commuter bike, so it is meant to be riden slow. Did I happen to mention I also mention hate puck peddles?

With bike parked, I enter into the office. I guess it wasn't all bad. Although I had some issues getting a bike a few times, my 30 min walk back to the office was shorted to a 10 min ride. So, I guess the BIXI bikes serve a purpose. However,&nbsp; I will think twice before dropping another $5 on a on one of these things....maybe I'll just buy a few bike locks for my bike. After all, who has a use for a carbon bike with carbon wheels for riding around downtown Toronto?

 