---title: TED: Life with Bikesvisible: true---<div>
  I think one of the reasons I managed to stay fit enough to race this year dispite not following any real training plan is that I commute to work 20km (one way) to work almost every day. While 20km isn't much, it's enough to get sweaty and to get short workout in. On the trip into the office, I managed to TT through the Don Valley and on the way home I get in some hard hill repeats. I have done it long enough now (since March) that I know every bit of road from here to the office. I also know when I am fatigued - hills I can do at 28km/h on a good day, I have a hard time with maintaining 22km/h on bad days. In my mind, without the ride to work, I would have never put in as much time as I would have wanted on the bike.<br /><br />However, not everyone is so lucky. Allen Lim, the sports scientist that currently works with Team Radioshack has done a excellent inspirational video on how he got his start in cycling. He tells stories such as as a kid, he road from Los Angelos to San Diego with some friends. Apparently, he was 13 at the time. I think the best part of the video is when Lim says, "Ambition is a very easy thing to hide behind, until one day you realize it is all you have" and goes on to explain that his love of cycling was put on the back burner for his career. He works with Pro cycling teams, but never gets a chance to ride himself.<br /><br />When discussing the "secret sauce" that makes a great cyclist, Lim goes on to quote the 1949 Tour de France winner, Italian cyclist, Angelo Fausto Coppi<span><span>. Coppi, when asked what makes a great cyclist, said to "just ride, just ride, just ride" meaning there is no magic to making a Tour de France winner. Thus far, in my limited experience, I can say it takes ambition, dedication, and experience to win bike races, but I digress. Lim closes the video with his solution to his lack of time to ride. I will not give that one up. Watch the video for yourself. All I will say, if you commute by car and are one of the statitistic he quotes, you will feel inspirated to "just ride, just ride, just ride".<br /><br /><a target="_blank" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LndpgmPLW-0">Allen Lim at TEDx:Mile High</a>: (click READ MORE for the video)<br /></span></span>
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <span id="_plain_text_marker"><br />[youtube]LndpgmPLW-0[/youtube]<br />&nbsp;</span>
</div>