---title: Rode the Donut Ride at -8Cvisible: true---When I purchased my cold weather gear back in late November/early December, I set a goal of riding the <a href="http://www.donutride-toronto.ca/" target="_blank">Donut Ride</a> in January. The Donut Ride is a ride here in Toronto the runs year round regardless of the weather. The thought of the time was that it would be sufficiently cold to warrent the purchase of the new equipment. It took a few tries, but I managed to get a good wind proof jacket and enough long baselayer peices to make the experience of cycling outside in the cold enjoyable (well, tolerable). The clothing was also useful when I took up cross country skiing this month because the gear is the same. So, I have managed to get good use from it.

Yesterday, Sunday, Janurary 31, the last day in the month of January, I decided was the day to ride outside and do the Donut Ride. Don't Stop Jim and Camera Guy Jay were planning on riding. It was Don't Stop Jim that convinced me to get the cold weather gear and riding outside is something that does not have to be limited to summer.

 

<hr id="system-readmore" />

I got up around 7AM to get read to leave for around 8:30AM. I seemed to recall that the ride from my home to Bayview/Sheppard took 20 mins back in December. I put on the cycling gear and packed a spare change of baselayer along with the other riding eccentials (cell phone, food, etc.). I used my Camelback instead of water bottles because water bottles have a habit of freezing up when it's really cold out. The Camelback also acts as a heater and keeps my back warm. I set out around 8:30AM into a strong headwind that slowed me down. As I rode, I saw the clock on my cyclocomputer count down the time and I seemed to manage to hit every single red light on the way over. I arrived at Bayview/Sheppard around 9:10AM. 5 mins to spare because the Donut Ride runs by there at 9:15AM. I thought I would be late and miss the ride. I met up with Don't Stop Jim at this location and we waited for the ride to pass by.

The ride ran up Bayview on time at 9:15AM and we joined in. There were some 15 other rides at this point - quite a small number considering I have done the ride with some 100 riders showing up. We rode the route and met up with Camera Guy Jay at Willowdale/Cummer around 9:30AM and continued north. The ride was fairly gentle at this point, although there was a push to go harder along HWY 7 - but this is normal. Somewhere along Keele, we picked up a new rider: a guy on a fixie - one gear and no brakes. It was incrediable to watch him keep up with the pack.

Testor Rd. came up quicker than I remember it from the last time. Testor Rd. is the sprint point on Keele where the group starts to ride hard until it reaches the water stop at Grandma's Oven some 20km from this point. Don't Stop Jim sugggested he was pulling off. His baselayer was soked and the risk of getting cold was high. Considering the purpose for the ride for me was only to ride and not kill myself, I joined him. We watched as the pack sprint up Keele St. and away from us. I figure I would save the sprint for another day.

Jim and I stopped further up Keele at Tim Hortins, and changed out baselayers. From there, we took it farely easy on the way home. We went across Elgin Mills Rd and down Leslie St (which runs into Don Mills Rd). Jim seemed to want to pull the entire way and passed me ever time I got out front. This was fine with me. Jim pulled off on Don Mills Rd for the long ride home and I continued along to McNicole and rode home. I had to push myself to go harder after Jim peelled off because I found going slow caused me to get cold. Riding outside in the cold requires a certain degree of effort to keep the body warm.

The ride was an experience. I rode in January in the cold. I am not sure I would go that every weekend. Magically, I think the highlight of the ride was went I walked into the house and found an icicle hanging off my nose. I had a bit of a chuckle at that one.

Thus, it's back to the Fitness Factory to train indoors. While the Donut Ride is a fun ride that tests ones riding ability on the sprints, it's not training. I would rather train and get ready to ride in the warmer weather. My fitness level still needs some improvement especially considering the crash last summer. I will say that training throughout the month of Janurary did help; in that, I road strong that I did a month previous.