---title: Back into racing...visible: true---It was over a year ago that I crashed at the Midweek Crit and ended up in the hospital with a broken leg. Three weeks ago, I decided to get back into the Midweek Crit. I ventured out to join in the first race three weeks ago. I basically wanted to know if I had what it takes to get back into criterium racing. I was somewhat surprised when I managed to make it through the first race without much difficulty. Prior to my crash the year prior, I was dying from the first race. It was the hardest thing I had every done. Because of the number of donut riders presently, it felt like any average donut ride. The first race was a fun ride. I used it to practice NOT using the brakes around the corners. I wanted to sit in for a few laps of the second race, but I got too rested to jump in. Little did I know, my coach, Aubrey Bryce was in the second race that day and had been watching me for the first race.

When I met with Aubrey to go over my training plan the next day, I suggested I wanted to add the midweek crit to it. He agree and suggested to stick to the second race. Apparently, in his opinion,&nbsp;I was fast enough and the second race group is more experienced and it is a safer race anyways.

 

<hr id="system-readmore" />

 

Well, I did that. Last week, I did the second race after doing about 50% of the first race. I found the first race somewhat easy as it just a matter of sitting in the pack and joining the draftfest. The second race was another matter completely. I managed to hang on for about 60 mins of the second race; however, about 45 mins into the race I could feel my body struggling to keep going. I ended up bonking 60 mins into the race and had to pull off. After about two bottles of water, I was good to go. Obviously, I forgot the rule of riding: drink before you get thirsty. Of course, I only brought one bottle with me for the race thinking that idea works for the donut ride. Yea. Ok. However, the second midweek race is almost 90 mins of hell. It harder than the donut ride. I should have known better. I suppose I should congratulate myself for lasting the hour, but it feel silly to not complete the first race out of choice and dropping out of the second race.

Tonight, I did the Midweek Crit again. The plan, again, was to do the second race: sit in and spin. However, I should have known it won't work when I got dropped after two laps of the first race. I got caught in the wind, and fell off the back of the pack. I just couldn't get the power to catch back up. I eventually rejoined the pack and it ended up being an easy spin. My heart rate dropped into Zone 2 for a bit. I guess I managed to find the grove of the pack. However, because I was there for the second race, I dropped out of the first one. Considering the ease at which I eventually managed to sit in, I should have stayed put. So, the second race did I start. It was a good start. I don't know how it happened, by I managed to be out front for the first two laps before the pack overtook me (the video shows there were others further out front - start of the breakaway). I was left wondering where everyone went to. How I managed to stay out front for two laps was completely beyond me. However, it downhill from there. I managed to hang on for another seven laps of so. I seemed to move backwards as I filtered through the pack to the back. I managed to hang on as best I could, but at one point I didn't have the speed to keep up. The best I could guess is I did the Blue Mountain Centurion Recon ride on Sunday (170km in Collingwood - 2000m climbing) and I had not really had time recovered. The last time I did that ride, I managed to hold on during the donut ride the following day, but the midweek crit is several levels harder. It just was not to be. I tried to join back in the second race for few more laps, but quickly fell off the back again. I eventually gave up and watched the race from the sidelines.&nbsp;

Tonight proved that I need to be sufficiently recovered to race. I am glad I did not enter the Terracotta race. I would spend $50 and not finished. However, I am glad I am putting in the time to learn some of the simple things now when it does not matter. Next year, I would like to take racing seriously. I gather from this experience tonight it will be a year or more after than before I can build sufficient fitness in order to sustain the efforts required for stage racing. To race a four or five stage race would be my ultimate challenge and something I would like to do.