---title: 233km Ride to Niagaravisible: true---<div>
  WHEN: Sunday, May 27@7AM<br />WHERE: 25 Peach Willoway, Toronto or meet up en route<br />ROUTE: <a href="http://tpks.ws/xVP2">http://tpks.ws/xVP2</a>&nbsp;<br />CONTACT: mark at buckaway dot ca<br />GETTING BACK: GO Bus to Hamilton, and then GO Train - the GO bus takes two bikes per bus or VIA rail with a bagage car (book you ticket in advance!)<br /><br />Last year, I rode to Niagara Falls some 5-6 times. Sometimes on my own, and sometimes with others. Routes varied from a flat 160km ride along the waterfront trail, to 180km ride that took in the climbs on Fifth Rd and Effingham Rd, to a solo 210km ride that went through Ancaster and a nasty 5km climb up the escarpment and included Efflingham Rd. I never did get to ride the extended 233km route that added Rattlesnake Point. So, this is what we are doing. All total, there is some 2100m of climbing en route. More than the Fondo in Collingwood. I decided to leave off the Fifty Rd climb because I'm not ready for a 250km ride and another 300m of climbing. We will do that next time.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />Ride stops:<br />- Starbucks@ Elgin Mills/Collegeway Mississauga (about 2 hours into the ride)<br />- Corner store on Consession 6E in Black Corners (or there-abouts - I'm usually wiped by this point and need a recharge)<br />- Dundas for a coffee/lunch - Domestique Cycling Cafe - lunch alternative is Tim Hortins down the road. This will be about 12:30PM<br />- Smithville Tim Hortins<br />- Fonthill Tim Hortins if required - although I usually just push through the last 20km as faster as I can<br /><br />If is really stupid hot, I usually stop in between the above as required. I have 4-5 ppl confirmed. The more the faster the ride. The last time I did the 210km ride, I averaged 32km/h and was TT'ing at 38-40km/h on the top of the escarpment on my own. I expect it to be faster with a group, although, we will drop no one and wait on all climbs.<br /><br />Please let me know you are coming and where you would like to meet. I've done the ride enough, I can pinpiont a time we should be crusing through. Parking is available at my townhouse complex and you can leave you car as long as you want. No one here cares and tickets are never issued.<br /><br />If you want a backpack transported to the ride end, please bring it to the ride start or drop it off on the Sat. My daughter is driving down to pick me up and can bring it with her.<br /><br />If you are taking the GO Bus/Train back or VIA, I will make sure you get to the station.<br /><br />The next time we do this in July/August the Bike train will be running.<br /><br />&nbsp;
</div>