---title: Train to race, not just train: Sprinting is a Skillvisible: true---<div>
  I think one of the best things I read recent came from an email conversation I had with my coach, Ed Veal. In it he said something that made so obviously, made so much sense, yet seems to alude more bike racers: "Train to race, not just train". Ed is a guy that just doesn't talk that talk, he walks the walk (rides the ride?). Recently, I received an email from Ed that he sent to all his clients. It describes his weekend training session. Due to family commitments, he was stuck training indoors. He describes how, ever though fatigured, he pushed hard and continued doing sprinting efforts. I will let you read the email (slightly edited and posted with his permission) for yourselves:<br /><br />
  
  <hr />
  
  <br />It was an indoor weekend for me even though it was awesome out. Two awesome days on the trainer (3hours both days) my body feels great.<br /><br />Today, I did a very solid day on the bike and as the 2 hour mark passed started to feel a little fatigued. I continued on for another 30 mins at a very solid tempo before deciding it was time to do some sprints. I figured sprinting late in the ride was the best time to do it because that's when I would be sprinting in a race (I'm training to race btw). Every 30 seconds on the mark I stood and cranked things up a bit. I hit 900 watts most of the time in the first 5-6 sprints and then got into the groove getting over 1000 and then 1200, 1300, 1400 a few times in a row. I did about a dozen in a row with only 20 seconds rest in between each sprint. I went on the 30 - sprinted for 6-8 seconds and then held 200 watts for 22 seconds until the next one. This was a great workout and an awesome way to finish the ride. I mention it because you may not realize the kind of effort I am putting in right now at this time of year. This kind of finish to an already hard 3hr indoor training ride would kill most people. I'm alive and stronger because of it and I am writing you because I really believe there is more to sprinting than just physical power, strength, speed, etc... I think is really is a skill. I think it is something I have excelled at because I have had initial success with it. Since then, I have continued to put the time and effort to improve and refine this skill. The efforts that I am putting in explains my sprint is getting better and why my sprint isn't the same as it was last year or the year before that.
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br /><br />Here is a little something that was on my mind and I needed to write down. Is sprinting a skill? I sure think so and I think it may be as important as any other skill in cycling. Aside from the mental game (which I think makes up more than half of the sport) sprinting is extremely important if you ever plan on getting a result in a road race. The problem is many people think this part of racing is purely physical. Why would I be working on my sprint in the off season? This time of year is for base and endurance miles right? Gotta work on that engine. I keep getting feedback from my clients that it is this time of year to log junk miles and gain weight waiting for the new year to arrive so you can rush around to catch up with everyone who didn't take 3 months off. I'm here to tell you that base miles and endurance miles are great for you but you still need to work on your weaknesses and this time of year.....is the perfect time to do it.<br />What makes a good sprinter? Power right? Strength and being explosive you say? How about leg speed?<br />What about timing? guts? courage? being fearless? being able to endure physical pain? what about psychological fatigue?<br /><br />I think you need to be confident, extremely confident and you need to be confident under pressure and when your exhausted after a tough day in the saddle. What gives you that confidence? Why is one guy more confident going to the line than another? Why is one guy more confident than another in anything? Practise folks... whether it is talking cycling or standing up to speak in front of a crowd. You need to practise and repetition will have you feeling more confident with each burst.<br /><br />This is my take....A warrior prepares for battle. Practise and repetition has a warrior ready to fight to the death. Being physically strong is one thing, being completely confident in your abilities because of knowing how your going to feel, how to focus, dig deep, know exactly where to be, when to go and how you are going to respond to every possible scenario is another. Sprinting is a skill and skills need to be worked on. A skill of mine is going deep into the red zone over and over and over when I'm hurting, cramping and wanting to quit. Another skill is the confidence knowing I can do this kind of effort more than most. It isn't just crap I tell myself, I prove it to myself on a weekly basis. I train hard to keep this skills sharp and by doing so I see improvements every year. These are things I constantly work on:&nbsp; Riding as aero and as low as possible, drafting, bumping, touching wheels, cornering, knowing the finish, knowing how long you can sprint for, fighting for position, transition from sitting to standing, gearing, bike throw, etc... Indoors I'm working on the aero standing position and accelerating as fast as possible and getting my leg speed up higher than ever before...oh ya...over and over and over PLUS I do all of this when I'm torched and my body is breaking down....you should too!<br /><br />When you see the results you will understand why I think it is so important. Zone 3 and 4 can do a ton for your TT or pursuit on the track and is very useful to some extent but not working on your finish will make sure you never finish well.<span id="_plain_text_marker">&nbsp;</span>
</div>