---title: TruTrainer Rollers, part 3 - The First Ridevisible: true---On Tuesday, I received the shipment of my new <a target="_blank" title="TruTrainer Rollers" href="http://www.trutrainer.com/">TruTrainer</a> rollers. The arrival was quite impressive considering I had ordered them just the week prior. When I opened the box, I found the rollers completely assembled and ready to go. The inside of the box was signed, "Mark, Enjoy the rollers, Ross and Jeff". After dinner that evening, I setup the rollers and had my daughter help shoot a video of the first ride. I put them in the middle of the room because that is where I will be riding them when I bring them to the <a target="_blank" title="Forest City Velodrome" href="http://www.forestcityvelodrome.ca">Forest City Velodrome</a> in London, ON. Just setting them up, I was impressed by the amount of resistance the rollers offer.I did a half hour spin on the road bike on the rollers to test them out and then did a five minute spin up on the track bike.

Here is the video of the first ride:

<hr id="system-readmore" />

[vimeo]19507467[/vimeo]

Yesterday (Wednesday), I did an interval set on these rollers. I mounted my powertap wheel on my Giant road bike and set off to put the rollers to work. It was a short ladder set at an 1hr 5 min. I started in Power Zone 1 for 10 mins, 10 mins at PZ2, 10 mins PZ3, 5 mins PZ4, 10mins PZ3, 10M PZ2, 10mins PZ1 (which adds up to about 1:05). Holding PZ4 on these rollers is hard. I've done the same on my Computrainer where PZ4 is easy. Unlike a trainer, you have to keep your balance while spinning. This increases the effort, nevermind the reaction of the resistance unit is very much like the road: ease up, and you quickly slow up. It was easy to push out 400W on these rollers without getting anywhere near by top end gear. It was a good interval set. I will continue to train on these rollers. I looked at my stationary trainer during the ride and contemplated if I really needed to keep it. I highly recommended TruTrainer rollers to everyone.