---title: Cold? It's not cold. Riding in the Cold is fun.visible: true---On arrival to work this morning, my car's dashboard read -13.5C. At home, it was -17C. Living in Toronto, Canada, one gets used to January being a cold month. It could be worse: in Winterpeg, Manitoba the weather this morning would be a warm day. The city of Toronto is actually holding the coldest bike ride of the year on Saturday. On getting out of the car at the office, I did not really notice the cold. It is something that has happened recently as I decided a month or more ago to take up cycling outside on these "warm" days.

<hr id="system-readmore" />
You see, two to three times per week I ride indoors at the 
<a title="D'Ornellas Fitness Factory" href="http://www.dornellas.com/DOrnellasTheFactory.asp" target="_blank">D'Ornellas Fitness Factory</a>. It's a good workout and saves me the bother of planning a workout myself as well as I have someone else to scream "go harder, harder!!" during the workout. Riding indoors I find is a harder workout than riding outside. These last few nights I've taken to riding my bike there and back to the Factory. Now, the Factory's workout room turns into a virtual sauna after 20+ people ride on trainers inside for 1.5 hours or more. I discovered that after a hard ride at the Factory and after I am dripping with sweat, there is not more refreshing and exhilarating that riding home outside in the cold. Last night, it was -14C with a windchill of -23C. There is almost a high acheived from the experence. I guess the "shock" produces a rush of adreniline. To be clear, I wear all my cold weather gear - I am not crazy enough (stupid?) to ride outside in cycling shorts alone.</p> 

While this experience may seem odd, about three weeks ago, I went cross country skiing for the first time in years. It was -15C with a wind chill of -25C. I wore my cold weather cycling clothing while skiing with about 4 layers on top and I never noticed the cold for the 1.5 hours I was outside. In fact, I was sweating by the time I was done.

What I would like to point out is there seems to be a useful side effect of "playing" outside in the cold. One's body appears to get used to it and one does not notice the cold as much. I need only stay indoors for a week or drive to the Factory and the cold weather starts to feel cold again. Feeling warmer when it is cold outside and perhaps cool inside is useful. One does not require a sweater when it's cool inside. One can stay out longer in the cold. Lastly, one's idea of cold is extended down the thermometer.

This weekend I am looking forward to spending Saturday skiing all day and doing Toronto's Donut Ride on Sunday (so long as the roads are dry); basically, I am having a weekend outside having fun.