---title: FCV Track Race Reportvisible: true---<div>
  Ride Data: <a target="_blank" title="Track Race Data" href="http://tpks.ws/AOSUmJ6F">[CLICK HERE]<br /></a><br />On Saturday, December 3, I race at the Forest City Velodrome for the FCV Grand Prix. It was a evening packed with lots of longer endurance style races making for a hard night of racing on the track. The following is an edited version of the info I added to Training Peaks on the race. I thought it would be of interest to the few the read the blog.<br /><br />--<br /><br />The first race was a B Endurance race of 60 laps...which was 20 laps more than usual. I had dropped the gearing from 88 to 86 gear inches (GI) during the warmup because Rob Good annouced during the warmup that race gears were limited. I am glad I did drop the gearing, because I found the 88 gear inches I was riding in the race warm up to be too big to get over. 86GI was about right considering I've managed to spin a high cadence lately and managed to get to 133RPM on the track during race training on the Wednesday night. The race started fast and the pace remained high. The same kid hit the front each time, took off, and ramped up the pace to the extreme. The pack got split and I got held up behind a riders that didn't "seem" to want to work. However, the pack managed to slow up enough to latch on - although, it was still an all out effort to catch them. The last 5 laps were the hardest because I was running out of gas. However, of the 10 people that started the race, 4 dropped out at that point. I manage to hang on long enogh to get fourth place of the six finishers. I wish I got out of the saddle on the last lap and fought for third....considering I did jump intervals the night before I should have been able to do it. Fastest lap for this race was 10.313secs.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />The next race was the B division miss and out...or for me, it was more just out. This race is good to practice positioning because it's all about staying off the back. Being on the black in the front of the pack is the best place to be. I was there for about 3 laps until a group of 4 riders came completely over the top of the pack and pushed me to close position to the back. At which point, I was boxed in. I couldn't work my way up and forward. By the time I realized what I had to do, I was out. I should have dropped back and came over the top. Of course, at 38km/h, it's 12 second per lap, and it's five laps until the next "out", and that doesn't give one a lot of time to think. My loss. What hurt even more was my 18 year old son managed to stay in for longer than I did on the C division race. He was second out. I was first out. But, it's all about positioning and I just was in the wrong place.<br /><br />The third race was an unknown distance race. The previous C unknown distance race was about 20 laps. It seemed that this was about the amount they would put out there for out race. The last time I did one of these, it was 8 laps and I got caught at the back. I managed to get near the back on the boards so that when it came my turn to rotate, I just would not go. I did what one of the other riders did and held on close to the front in the sprinters lane. That worked because a few laps later it was 3 to go and I managed to jump with the rest of the pack. I didn't more up, but I held my position. While it felt like I finished mid pack, the computer suggested still finished last (8th place) . My fastest lap: 9.964. I broke 10 sec!! Almost 50km/h for a lap. My previous best time on the track was 10.3 secs.<br /><br />The last race ended up as a sprint. The non-madision riders were to do a last man standing. Since there were only two of us, so Rob Good had us do a sprint. Um, something I haven't done at all since Feb. It happened to be against that fast kid that ramped up the pace in the first race. I started on the back on the boards. I like the front. On the first lap, I got caught up about the red line in a corner going too slow and had to come over him. No worries, I figured it would be a good place to hold him from flying over me. Unfortunately, I have to learn to look over my right shoulder and keep looking over that shoulder. The pace was slow for the first two laps as I moved up and down the track trying to keep him just behind my back wheel and slightly higher than me. I hoped to be able to get up the track and jump before he could. That didn't work. With 1.5 laps to go, I turned my head for a split second to look straight, and he bolted over me and down to the black. By the time I got out of the saddle and ramped up the pace to match his he was 50m in front of me, and that's how the race ended. It was a good match and I congradulated him for whipping me fairly. It was a good call on his part. I blinked and he jumped. I finished 1.3secs behind him and got a best lap time of 10.221secs.<br /><br />I have been doing leg speed drills on the rollers. I managed to hold 180RPM+ for 10secs the last time I tried it. So, the leg speed drills are working. I can do a sub-10 second lap. I would imagine that would be a 9.8 lap or better doing a flying lap if I were to test myself. My Garmin data suggested a max leg speed of 135RPM on the track for the race session which is far better than a month ago where I maxed out at 125RPM. I still need to break 200RPM on the rollers for leg speed intervals. When I can do that for 15 secs and not just 10sec, I should be able to start out-running some of the B racers during the races and ramping the pace up myself and putting the hurt on.<br /><br />I didn't win any race, but that stats are showing that I am improving. I still need to work on my jump (getting out of the saddle and sprinting) when max'd out and working on being on the right place at the right time.<span id="_plain_text_marker">&nbsp;</span>
</div>