---title: Riding Inside: The velodromevisible: true---After riding outside the entire summer, I have come to the realization I am not looking forward to two things:

1) Riding inside

2) Freezing my nikkers off outside.

That said, a month or so back, I started to look for alternatives. I came across a web ad for the Forest City Velodrome in London, ON and had a look at this website. While I had never considered track as a possibility. the idea of riding a bike indoors on a track instead of a trainer appealed to me. Rather than pure drudgery of spinning on a trainer, one does laps on a track. Furthermore, I would learn to ride a fixed gear bike with no brakes. While that notion scares some people, I know from my reading of cycling books and magazines that fix gear riding improves the pedal stroke because you have to pedal. The pedals are directly connected to the wheels. Riding on a track also improves one's bike handling skills. If I want to do road racing, any help on getting better is helpful to me.

<hr id="system-readmore" />


Thus, this year is also a year of a lot of firsts for me:

1) Rode a Time Trail for the first time, and got a good time (for a road bike).

2) Rode up Mont Ventoux in France in good time and was left with the feeling it was an easy climb (hill repeats anyone?)

3) I learned to ride my Cross bike in the MIdweek Cross

Now, I add have added learning to ride a track bike to the list of firsts.

So, today was the day I booked in for the Track 1 "course" at the <a href="http://www.forestcityvelodrome.ca/" title="Forest City Velodrome" target="_blank">Forest City Velodrome</a>. $20 for the course and $10 for the bike rental. Three hours of riding. I left home at 9AM in order to get here in good time. Even with a Tim Hortins stop, I manage to make it in under two hours. I filtered into the building. I was left wondering what's next because there is no one up front and the lights are turned down low. I followed the signs for "competitors" and found my way to the track. There were a few riders on the track at the time, so I waited for a suitable opening and went down to the middle of the track. The building is a repurposed hockey rink, so there is no tunnel to the track pit area. You must cross the track to get the middle or pit area.

Once down in the pit area, I looked around. I noticed the track. The ends of the track appeared to be almost vertical. Ah, we ride up there? I thought to myself. I signed in, went back to the washrooms, got changed, and went back to the track. We were instructed to select a bike and I found one size 55cm. I usually ride a 56cm, &nbsp;so I thought it would be close enough. The bars were a bit narrow, but I thought I could live with it. After some minor adjustments to the bike, we started slowly riding around on the concrete going VERY SLOWLY. Riding a bike that has no brakes and that once is always pedaling takes some getting used to. We then moved onto stopping. This is a matter of opposing the movement of the pedals with the feet and when you are slow enough, unclip, and put your feet down with one pedal front of you. Easy said than done. I met the floor once by the foot I unclipped get clipped back in by the force of the movement. After a few tries, we all got the hang of it.

The next two hours were spent with various drills to get is riders used to riding the track bike. Steering. Once turns the bars on a track bike rather than leaning into the turn. This is more like riding a cross bike over a road bike. It is more important on a track bike to steer with the bars because leaning into the turn means crashing. Riding the track. Next we moved to getting some speed and practicing getting on and off the track and progressed to riding around the track, first on the blue transition area and up on the track to the black line. Then, some drills with getting off the track at speed. One has to leave the track in an ordered fashion because if there are others on the track, they need to be able to go around you. The track exit is marked with a black line. It is also important to prepare to leave the track about a lap because the actual exit. Has has to shave off speed and then on the final corner get to the bottom of the track in the blue area and slow ride down because coming onto the concrete. Apparently, the concrete rides like ice and if one is going too fast, one can ride up the other end and up the track. Not good. We never had any issues. I should explain that the track is layed out with several sections: the skirt which is a wooden area between the concrete and the transition area, the blue transition area used for coming on/off the track, the black line, the red line, and then the blue line. The top yellow line is an indicator that the next stop is into the wall. It is something to stay away from.The last 30 mins of the Track 1 session was used to get used to riding faster and closers together in a paceline formation and using proper shoulder checks. It is important to always do a shoulder check on the track while changing lines or come on/off the track save running into another rider. After the track 1 session was over, we got are certificates.

The last hour of the three hour period was a skills session. Placed in a paceline formation, those that stayed were lead our by one of the track stars (Olympian?) and a one other pro. We rode in 25 min sets working on skills of riding the track, switiching hand locations on the bars, shoulder checks, changing lines on the track, pickup up speed, slowing down, and following closer and father away. We became confident enough that the coach got us up to the blue line on the track. This is the upper line of the track and the riders are literally riding some 10ft off the ground on the ends of the track in an almost vertical position in relation to the ground. Of course, we also did a few drills line getting out of the saddle for complete laps. The last out of the saddle drill was five laps. This is hard for two reasons: You have to maintain your speed and not accelerate and the centrifugal force that keeps you on the track also forces the body down the faster you go. So, staying out of the saddle isa bit of a fight in the corners; nevermind, one must steer the bike whilst in the drops. However, having done these kind of drills on the trainer, for example, standing for five minutes, I managed to complete the drills.

The one thing I noticed in riding the track is that time flies. Maybe because the entire experience is new, but the three hours just flew by. No sooner had we got onto the track, we were coming off. Usually when I dod the Midweek Crit or Midweek Cross, I'm begging for the end of the session.

So, at the end of it I felt like I had fun. I say felt like it because it is a long drive from Toronto to London. Plus, I was somewhat apprehensive at first, but I got over it. So, I joined the Velodrome. My intent is to spend every Saturday morning through the winter doing the recreational riding sessions in the morning. I also learned that they do them on Monday evenings and follow them up with a skills session. So, I will go the monday night sessions as often as I can. I want to work my way to the track two course and beyond. I don't know if I will race, but I want to gain enough skills to be able to ride the track with confidence in almost any situation.&nbsp;

So today was a good day: I rode the track at the Forest City Velodrome up to the blue line with it's 50 degree incline...