---title: 20-39 year olds at Risk for Heart Problemsvisible: true---Global TV Story:

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: normal; white-space: pre;"><a href="http://www.nationalpost.com/multimedia/video/index.html?category=National+Post&video=0Y5K_7WS9ehQKQky0kZWvxnaW6AYIGvo" target="_blank">http://www.nationalpost.com/multimedia/video/index.html?category=National+Post&video=0Y5K_7WS9ehQKQky0kZWvxnaW6AYIGvo</a></span>

Global TV did a piece on heart health. The Heart and Stroke Foundation is raising the alarm that those in the 20-39 age group are now at risk for heart problems. With the changes in diet since the 1980's, more people are eating too much, putting on too much weight and not exercising enough. What I found interesting about the piece is that it suggests beliefs in being overweight are normal are commonplace.

I certainly experienced this fact myself before I decided I was fat. A few years ago I was at 250lbs and in France on vacation. I was attempting to buy a golf shirt. The french XL was the size of a large here in Canada. In fact, I could find nothing that fit. I was too fat. Even now, at 190lbs I am still overweight by 10lbs (my BMI is around 26) and friends and relatives are shocked to hear that I think myself overweight. Of course, most cyclists in the cycling club I am in are BMI less than 25 by a large margin. I still have a goal to get down to 170lbs. &nbsp;With the attitude I encounter that I'm not overweight, one can see where this notion of fat is normal plays a part in society. Fat people don't believe their are fat. I was 265lbs before I figured that out.

Blame cheap fast food and food companies more interested in their bottom line then the customer's waist lines. Big Tobacco got caught with their pants down. It will take time, but Big Food will have to deal with the problem they help cause. In the mean time, eat up folks. You'll die off and make room for health conscience people on the planet.

&nbsp;