---title: Climbing Techniquevisible: true---Climbing. I like climbing. It's just you against the hill. It is as much a physical challenge as a mental challenge. For example, I was in southern UK last week and went cycling with the <a title="Exeter Wheelers Cycling Club" href="http://www.exeterwheelers.co.uk" target="_blank">Exeter Wheelers Cycling Club</a>. Devon is a hilly area in England and we hit some big hills. One hill hit a section that topped out at 17% for about 1km. I had no idea this climb would happen because I was visiting the area, but I had to deal with it. It was a mental challenge because I felt like I should get off my bike and walk up because of the force required to get the pedals around. Of course, because I had other riders around, I kept going. It was a tough climb.

The mantra I use with climbing it sit in and spin. It's going to take a while to climb the hill, so I mentally get my mind set on keeping the pedals spinning and that the climb is going to take some time, so get used to it. On a long hill, I do my own ride and don't worry much about any other riders I'm with. A lot of riders look at a climb and get demorazied but looking at the hill as something that is hard to do and wonder if they can climb it. I look it as a challenge and just another of road I need to work to get over. That mental line of thought of climbing works for me.

Now, watching the Tour de France today, Stage 18, the announcer made a comment on climbing that I will use in the future: eating before a big climb is something one must do with care. While eating is a good idea, one must not eat something heavy. Stay away from bananas, etc.. Stick with gels and other things that are easy for the body to process; otherwise, blood necessary for muscles to function on the climb, are used for digestion and this issue will make the climb harder.

Bike Radar has produced a short article worth a read. It's on climbing technique and covers ever aspect of getting good at climbing. The article is entitled: <a title="Bike Radar on Climbing" href="http://www.bikeradar.com/fitness/article/technique-uphill-battle-27049?CPN=RSS&SOURCE=BRGENHOME" target="_blank">Technique: Uphill Battle</a>. It is worth the read.

Remember, when you ride, you will encounter hills. Look to them as a challenge and something to work through to add to your accomplishments. Sit in and spin. Work through the climb and you will be happy that you accomplished the climb when it's done.