---title: Chinese Carbon Rocksvisible: true---<div>
  [This is the first of series of articles on my experience with Chinese bikes]<br /><strong><br />The Story</strong><br /><br />I have a unique history it would seem. I seem to have a history of trashing carbon frames. One has to understand, that I never intended&nbsp;to do it; however, I seem to be part of an extra ordinary number of crashes where my bike gets run over. For example, take April this year.<br /><br />I raced at the Calabogie OCUP race. I had my shiny new Vitess bike for four weeks. It was just returned after having the frame repaired and repainted. On the last lap of the race, I was in the middle of the pack when a few guys touched wheels, and took out 10 guys in the pack....me included. While I was fine, the bike frame was trashed. Here is the video: <a title="Crash Video" href="https://vimeo.com/40868972" target="_blank">CLICK HERE</a> - in case you missed it. The guy behind me ran over the bike. In hindsight, it could have been worse - I could have been ran over. The bike was toast. It has a broken top tube. This has been the story over my racing "career". Every year a bike frame gets trashed. Crash replacement frames run about $2,000. Repairs to carbon frames can run about $500-1500....and then, depending on where the cracks are, the frame may never ride the same. This is a process I have had to deal with every year since 2009. I would like to make it through a year of cycling where I did not have to replace a frame.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />Last year when my bike got trashed, I started looking around the internet for cheaper alternatives. I came across the Hong Fu Bikes website by a Google search. I did not do anything about it, but I saved the link. This year when my bike got trashed again, I emailed Hong Fu and got a quote on pair of new frames. The idea was to buy two frames. One to ride, and one to keep as a spare. Given I tend to trash bikes, I figured this way I would never be out of a frame. So far, it has worked. It has been four months and no issues. I have built out the spare frame, I have ordered and built another frame out with wheels for a friend, and I am currently contemplating ordering upgrading my track bike to use Chinese carbon.<br /><br /><strong>Going Chinese</strong><br /><br />Please do not think for a minute I am slagging Vitess, Giant, or the other bike manufactures. I am not. Ordering and building out a Chinese frame means you have to know bike mechanics or know someone that does. I would not expect the local bike shop to be very helpful with a frame swap. But, for me, over time, with the amount of times I've had to disassemble and re-assemble my bikes, I've collected the special tools needed to fix almost any issue on my bikes and be able to completely build a bike from the ground up. So, unless you know bikes mechanics and have the tools, stick to the name brands.<br /><br />I selected Hong Fu because they were there. No real good reason. But, after selecting Hong Fu, I was impressed with the service because I would chat over the ocean on Skype to place and finalize the order. Any questions I had or they have were immediately taken care of. This is important beause the region of China I am dealing with is 12 hours out timewize. Emails back and forth could take days to finalize anything.<br /><br />Chinese bikes are good quality, but they are not perfect. One should expect a few kinks. The forums on velobuild.com can help find out which bikes have what, if any, issues and how to work around them.<br /><br /><strong>The Bikes</strong><br />&nbsp;<br />I selected the bike frames based on what they had in stock. Most of the chinese vendors would prefer to deal with group buys where the quanities are 10+, but they will sell in lots of one (sample price) for a bit more money. In my case, I wanted two FM001 frames but they only had one 55cm FM001. They had a 54cm FM015 frame which was a 2012 model. The FM001 frame and fork was $320US and looked like a Pinerello knock-off. The FM015 frame and fork was $405US. I ordered spare bars, stem, bottle holders, etc. - all carbon and very cheap. I wanted spare parts in case of breakage. Shipping was $80US plus the 4% Paypal fee. Yes, you need a paypal account to deal with China. So, for about $1100US, I had two frames and enough parts to build out a second bike or to rebuild a frame of crashed it.<br /><br />Because of the experience, I convinced a friend of mine, who was in the market to upgrade his alloy bike, to allow me to build him a Hong Fu special. In his case, he also needed wheels, so we ordered him a 54cm FM015 and a set of carbon clincher 38mm wheels with red hubs. The wheels were $450US for rims, hubs, spokes, and the build. In his case, shipping was $160US because the bike frame/parts and the wheels were shipped separately. He spent about another $1600 or so at the local bike shop to obtain a full Ultegra group, a properly sized seat, pedals, bar tape, rim tape for the wheels (no rim tap is supplied), seat post bag, etc..<br /><br />Because I found the bike frames good enough, I decided to build out the FM001 frame I had been keeping as a spare. I bought some used and new parts from my local bike shop for a Shimano 105 group. The purpose of this bike was simple: commuting and racing. I wanted a bike I could confidently lock up at the office and then ride to the Midweek Crit on Tuesday nights. I did not want to spend a lot of money on the parts, because of the high likelihood they would get ripped off. I figured with the 105 group, the parts are compatible to DuraAce and almost 1/5 the cost. So, if I had to replace parts that were taken, I would not break the bank. Oddly enough, after riding the 105 group around, I actually prefer it to DuraAce. The shifts are just more solid and accurate. Every DuraAce bike I have has issues with the gears skipping - even after properly adjusting them. The 105 just locks solidly into every gear on a shift. So, for about $700 for the 105 group and the seat, I managed to build out my $320US FM001 frame. I have commuted with it. I've done the Donut and MG Rides with it, but I had yet to race it. It is a comfortable bike to ride.<br /><br /><strong>A Few Kinks</strong><br /><br />I have found a few issues with the frames. First, it took a while to figure out that down tube barrel adjusters are required for these frames. Current "modern" designs seems to have eliminated these things in favour of adding the adjusters inline on the gear shifter cables. I had no idea why - it's just an added expense. &nbsp;Nevermind, the down tube barrel adjusters are just easier to deal with. Anyways, once I realized I needed these and installed them on the bikes, all was good. While I never had shifting issues, these barrel adjusters make the gear cables set correctly into the frame.<br /><br />Secondly, the FM015 frame has an internally routed rear brake cable. Internally routed cables are all the rage for bikes these days. They are supposed to be more areodynamically efficient. On the FM015, because of the design, the rear brake cable up front must be long enough to never cause the cable to bend on the frame entry point, or the brake cable will stick. &nbsp;Even with this situation addressed, the rear brake cable tends to stick a bit until it wears in. This was a lesson I learned at the Springbank race these season when I found out AFTER the race my rear brake had been on for most of the race. That was no fun. Knowing that, I built my friend's FM015 properly, I warned him about the brake in period, &nbsp;and I have never heard any complaints from him.<br /><br />Lastly, the Chinese wheels seem to be rush built. What I mean by that is their are built once, and never re-tentions. So, they will have a break in period where the spokes must be re-checked, re-tentioned, and wheel trued. When my buddy left with his FM015 bike, I told him to get it checked in two weeks, and I was right. Two spokes on the rear wheel cable lose. However, I'm not concerned about it. All new bikes have a break-in period where screws need to be tighted, cables adjusted, etc..<br /><br /><strong>Conclusion</strong><br /><br />I like my chinese bikes. The FM015 "Black Knight" and the FM001 "Carbon Commute" bikes are fun to ride. They were cheap to build and are easy to maintain. Mostly because of the rotten luck I've had, I will never buy a $10K brand name bike again. I also think anyone spending $10K on a new bike where it is the only one they own and then they take it out and race it, is looking for utter disappointment when they crash it and it gets destroyed. Certainly, for amateur racing, it just is not worth spending big money on a bike. For the most part, the money is better spent a good coach that would put the average racer further ahead over the latest tech and the lightest frameset. Such is my opinion and such as been my experience.<br /><br />I like my two chinese bike enough, I am selling off my Giant TCR Advanced SL 2. You can find it listed on <a title="Giant TCR Advanced SL2 for sale" href="https://post.craigslist.org/manage/3196609382" target="_blank">CraigsList</a>.<br /><br />The next build will be a Chinese track bike and wheelset.&nbsp;<br />&nbsp;
</div>