---title: 9 Mins in Hellvisible: true---<div>
  If racing a bike is supposed to get easier, well, at the track, the better you get the harder is gets. Why? The people you race against also get better and one is placed in races with better riders. So, this past weekend was no different. I drove out to London, ON to race the Forest City Velodrome. At the race meeting, Rob Good assigned classes of riders to everyone. There was big crowd of races. Rob looked at me and muttered "ah..C...no...B". I wasn't concerned. I race most of the races at the track in the B category. However, I didn't realize who else was in B category. Some of the really good A riders were also set to race B category. When at the boards for the 40 lap endurance race, I saw Lorne Falkenstien roll up to the front and said out loud, "This is going to hurt". Lorne is one of the more experienced riders in the FCV and routinely wins races. There were other good riders in the pack as well, but from my second position at the boards, I couldn't see who. I had watched the C category race, and it was quite, well, pedistrian. I would like to have believed I could have won that one...which was probably why I was in B category.<br /><br />Off the boards, it was two laps rolling around the track before the start whistle. I knew I was in for trouble when riders where starting to come up to my right getting ready to attack off the starting whistle. When the whistle blew, Lorne, who was leading the pack at the front, sprinted off the front and pushed the pace into the punishing territory. Then, some else attacked from the yellow line. The attacks continued for most of the race. Attack. Attack. The pace did slow down twice and the pack bunched up, but it never lasted more than a lap as riders took advantage of the tired legs and attacked again.<br /><br />In reviewing the data from the race, my average heart rate for the entire race was 160bpm. My max HR is 174 and my threshold is around 165-167BPM. That was a time trial pace....except, in a TT, no one is attacking and no one is surging, nor anyone else in the race to contend with. In a TT, it's just you and the road (or track). After reviewing the video, I saw that I was at threshold for most of the latter part of the race. I know for certain that at four laps to go yelling "Shutup legs" stopped working and I was starting to slow as the rest of the pack was accelerating fighting for finishing position. I ended up last...but I finished. The results showed I was seventh. Eleven started the race and only seven finished. That punishing pace knocked four riders out for a DNF. I have to say, that race was the hardest thing I have done on the bike.<br /><br /><br />Watch the video of the race below:<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
</div>

<div>
  [vimeo]35613752[/vimeo]<br /><br />Race Results:<br /><a href="http://www.canadiancyclist.com/races12/ON/fcv_0121.pdf">http://www.canadiancyclist.com/races12/ON/fcv_0121.pdf</a><br /><br />Garmin Data:<br /><a href="http://tpks.ws/1L8j">http://tpks.ws/1L8j</a>
</div>