---title: Recovery: Thanksvisible: true---<div>
  First, thanks to everyone for your support, emails, twitter posts, words of encouragement, etc. after my shoulder met the ground in the Tour of Terra Cotta and I broke my collar bone. A special thanks to my friend, Roger Spackman. He is visiting Toronto from the UK this month. Roger, who has not driven on the right side of the road for some years, managed to find the Georgetown hospital, and stayed with me to eventually drive me home. Also, thanks to friend Robyn "Tailwindz" Meredith, after finishing the race, came back to help me out, find Roger, etc. and later came to Emerg to cheer me up. In case you don't know it, Robyn got 3rd overall for the Ontario Cup for the Masters B Women's division. Someone at the crash site asked her if she was my wife. She said no, but probably felt like saying something like "Ah, hell no, but he keeps asking me to go out with him and&nbsp;I&nbsp;keep telling him I won't even consider it until he wins a race".<br /><br />It has been about 11 days since the crash. Of course, the crash took out the use my right arm for a few days. It took a day to be able to figure out how to sit at the computer and type with two hands. So, I was only off work for a day - which was a good thing because the pain killers kept be mostly asleep all day the day following the crash. I still can't brush my teeth properly - try telling that to the dentist whose appointment I had on Monday this week. Floss you say? Huh? You try that with your left hand. &nbsp;I spent until this week working at home. My office just told me to stay there. It worked out. The pain killers and everything I needed were here at home.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />This week I had an appointment with the "specialist". As expected, the first question out of his mouth was, "What is your occupation". I would have loved to answer "Pro Cyclist", but I doubt he would have believed me. I know from past experience, treatment options are "occupation related". If I had answered, Pro Cyclist, I am sure I would have been given the star treatment and booked into surgery. But, as a computer programmer, I got what everyone else gets told: "go home and suffer. It will heal on it's own. " He didn't even ask if I need more pain killers.<br /><br />Luckily, the shoulder sling was becoming more useless by the day. I found that I could just leave it off at home because it just gets in the way. The "specialist" at the Georgetown hospital warned me to immobilize the arm, but not to the point where it stops working. So, for the most part, I've just hold the arm close to my body when I walk. When at my desk, my arm is just supported by the desk. As of today, I only use the sling to remind me and others around me outside the house I have a issue with my arm.<br /><br />I've been told the broken collar bone is a rite of passage in cycling. Oh joy. I'm wasting away some of the best cycling days of the summer. Annoying as it is, I don't mind entirely because in a sense, I'm happy for the break. I've not really taken any time off in a whole year. I went from road to cross to track last season, and never stopped -&nbsp;including cycling to work and back all winter. However, I miss the ride to the office and back. I hate the TTC. &nbsp;Riding to work makes getting up early and getting to the office for 8am all worth it. If nothing else, I get a ride in each day. Currently, for riding, I'm stuck using the trainer....something I hate. However, I found out last night while riding the trainer, I can hold the bars with two hands, shift gears, and stand on the pedals without any pain. I kept the session to an hour. I don't want to over do it. I promised myself to start doing a 30 min session every weekday morning to simulate the riding to work effort and hour sessions in the evening. I just have to be careful because I don't want to prolong the healing. Track racing starts at the end of Sept &nbsp;and the first six day race series in early October. Ready or not fitness-wise, I intend to be there. I'm thinking of trying to use the track bike on rollers instead of the trainer. I can spin hands free forever on that thing.<br /><br />So, I'm getting better and getting more use of my arm as the days go by. Pain is almost non-existant. I can move my arm around to do most things now, just the range of motion is still limited. I return to see the specialist on Sept. 7. I'm told I should be pain free by then and be able to start physio. I'm looking forward to it and getting back on the bike. I want to get in some stupidly long rides before the weather turns cold.<br />&nbsp;
</div>