---title: Power Fuel for Cycling: Gummy Bearsvisible: true---On last weeks ride, Jim was eating out of a bag of gummy bears. I thought that this foodstuff was a interesting choice for endurance exercise and decided to try them myself.

I found a large bag of gummy bears at Costco for $5.99. I decided against it because I thought for a test that would be too much. I then sourced some of the candy at the candy store and got enough for today's ride. Normally, I stick to Gel's because they are easy to deal with when you are riding at 30km/h in a group....but having something small to shove in your mouth as your ride makes it easier to deal with.

Today, I road the donut ride...and I never got that "out of steam" feeling. I did bring other food (bananas, flat breads, etc.), but I chewed on gummy bears on the way up to the top of the ride and on the way back home in the place of fiddling with gel packs. Even when the pace picked up (and I eventually got dropped), I still was able to stuff some of the gummies in my mouth and I was able to suck on them as my heart rate max'd out. Last week, during the ride home, I had problems running out of steam and I had hard time keeping up. This time around, I got stronger as the ride went on. I attribute it to the sugar boost that the gummies provided. Also, when one sucks on them they induce saliva in the mouth and the need for reaching for the water bottle is lessen (although, I drink regularly anyways).

Gummy bears appear to be made from sugar, glucose syrup, starch, flavouring, food colour, citric acid and gelatine (<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gummi_bear" target="_blank" title="Gummy Bears">Reference</a>). Sugar and starch are ingredients the body needs for an energy boost. While complex sugars such as the ones contained in gels would be better, because they do not burn off as quickly, the size and convenience of the gummy bears means they one need only grab a few gummies every 5-10 mins to keep fueled up. Of course, gels contain salts and other ingredients the body needs, so drinking a sports drink and eating other foods is still required, but, in my opinion, gummy bears make for a convenient energy boost on any ride.

Of course, just don't eat them between rides. While they are useful during the ride, they are completely empty calories that otherwise will just add weight to the rider.

 