---title: It takes THREE YEARS to be a Bike Racervisible: true---Sitting and talking last Tuesday to [Aubrey][7] is always a joy. He has spent his life working out, staying fit, and coaching others. He has been to the Olympics twice. I gather he is in his early 60's, but doesn't look older than 40.

I had already conveyed to him in an email my thoughts for the season. I wondered if coaching is something I should do this season, given my predictament resulting from my crash last season and my change of focus from racing to going long. To me, if I could not be competitive this racing season, there was little reason to try. The idea would be to pickup some racing skills even if it meant some DNF's (Did Not Finish).

<hr id="system-readmore" />


I still remember when I started cycling a little over two years ago. My cycling buddy Ron, who had done mountain bike racing some years prior, conveyed to me that to be competitive in racing requires building fitness and skill over three years. At the time, I thought he was nuts. I was faster than him on ever flat and made the top of the hills before him without trying, so how could this be? Last year, Audrey suggested I read Joe Freil's book "The Cyclists Training Bible". There again, I encountered the notition that it takes three years to graduate from being a novice cyclist to a "beginner". Three years? I have to admit, I still throught that was crazy. However, that notition changed when I did the Midweek Bike Club Tuesday night Crit for the first time. 45 mins. 24 laps. The hardest 45 mins I had done. It was mostly a zone 4+ effort. I was completed spent by the end of the race. I managed to hold my own in the pack, but at the end of it, my lungs hurt. Racing was hard and I had just started to being learning to race. It all came to an end the following week when I crashed.&nbsp; But, the time I spent in the hospital gave me time to reflect on how long it would take "to get good" at racing my bike. While we were told crashing is part of bike racing, I never expected to actually have it happen to me. But, in hindsight, it was a good thing. How could a broken leg be a good thing? It slowed me down long enough to learn that to get good at racing requires a multiyear effort and that it cannot, regardless of how painful a realization it is, be rushed. If I wanted to stand on the podium, I would have endure the effort over several years.

This is the reason I decided going long this year was the thing to do. If I could not be competitive racing, then going long and getting good at time trails would be the thing to do. I met [Aubrey Bryce][7] at Starbucks. Audrey confirmed that going long was a the right thing to do. He suggested too many atheletes want to get back into the game too soon after an injury and I had the right idea of racing next season. He also suggested that the lack of the abiltity to go long is the reason most North American's can not compete in European bike races (not that I will ever be able to do that). He suggested to be good at shorter races requires the muscle endurance gained from really long rides (160km+). He liked my idea of doing the Gran Fondo in September.

It seemed my realization that racing well this season just wasn't going to happen lead me to make some choices that, I gather, will lead to a stronger race season next year. Thus, building muscle endurance by riding long, and not hard is what I am going to do. I will still try a few races, but not with the idea of winning. I will attempt to hold my own, but could just as easily drop out before the final sprint to avoid a crash. The idea is to gain some experience with the idea of working on going long. So, that is what I will be doing. I look forward to training plans to make use of my time. I have a goal to be able to ride to Niagara Falls and back in the same day. It may not happen, but we shall see.

 

 [7]: http://www.aubreybryce.com "Aubrey Bryce"