---title: BM Gran Fondo Recon (er Donut) Ridevisible: true---<div>
  <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Thanks!</span><br /><br />Many thanks go out to my friend, Edward Henley from Creemore, and Aaron Arndt, from the Gears bike shop. Both of which made the ride great. Aaron and Gears provided the bananas and drinks. Ed dished them out on his front lawn for the first water stop and drove the left overs to Eugena for the second water stop. Needless to say, we ran out of "stuff" because we never expected this many riders out.<br /><br />Thanks to all the people that came out and made it a great ride (I wish I could have riden with you - more on that in a bit).<br /><br /><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Ride Day</span><br /><br />With emails still trickling on Friday, I knew the number of people on the planned recon ride would be large. I guess at 60-80 people on Thursday, and I doubt I was far off. The group grew as we collected at the Starbucks in the Blue Mountain Village. At 8:30am, I gave my speel about the ride...or what I thought it should be. We had a lot of fast guys out from the Donut Ride, MG Club, D'Ornellas club, Collingwood riders, etc..<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />I lead the roll out down to Grey Rd 19. I will never forget rolling through the roundable at the base of Scenic Caves Rd. As I was exiting the roundable riders were still entering from the other side. I think the numbers were more like 80-100 riders. It was certainly a HUGE group: all that from a few emails. <br /><br />When I got to Creemore, the crowd was quite large. Ed suggested he was running out of "stuff". Unfortunately, I never saw any of the riders after that.&nbsp; I hear the pack broke up into about five groups. It kinda had the flavour of the Toronto ride. Ed took photos. Click on the link below.<br /><br /><em><a target="_blank" title="Photos of the Ride" href="http://photos.hackcycling.ca/gfrecon2011/index.html">PHOTOS OF THE RIDE</a></em><br /><br /><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Ride with the Ladies</span><br /><br />For me, however, the roll out down Grey Rd 19 to the climb is where the trouble started. My heart rate max'd on the flats as we hit 35km/h - which was odd, because I TT at 160BPM, did a 180km ride the week before without issue, and rode 210km to Niagara on the August long weekend and averaged 32km/h on my own.<br /><br />However, I rode up the Grey Rd 19 climb at red line as I slowly fell towards the back of the group. That was also odd, because I normally am at the front of the pack. However, it was neet to see the entire pelaton climbing&nbsp; Grey Rd. 19. I wish I had my camera. I managed to make it to the top of the climb ahead of a few other riders. When we left the top the climb, Vita B. told me my brakes were rubbing. I stopped and got off to inspect the problem, and didn't see one. I kept going thinking nothing of it. I was having a bad day. However, at the Pretty River decscent, it was obvious something wasn't right. I could not keep up with the few stragglers I ran into. It was just too hard. I did try to TT to the pack I could see ahead when I got to the base of the descent, but I was wiped, and eventually gave up the chase. I rolled along Fairgrounds Rd. doing something like 20km/h because I was spent. I fueled up and soldiered on. I managed to get the first water stop in Creemore as everyone was rolling out. But, I stuck around because I just couldn't do it. I thought about abandoning the ride.<br /><br />If it were not for a group of ladies playing sweeper on the back (Diana, Jill, Nancy, Linda, and Sarah from Gears) <span style="font-size: x-small;" size="2"></span>pulling up as I was about to leave, I probably would have called Ed to collect me on his way to Eugena. I rode with them all the way to Blue Mountain. I think the best thing was stopping for lunch Diana's chalet at the cut off point for going short. While their worried I might drop them, at one point, Nancy asked me to speed up while pulling on the front (talk about a blow to the ego). Apparently, I was going too slow. We did the entire 170km. My only regret was not getting a photo of the lot of us. Personally, I think I had the best group to ride with. These ladies were strong.<br /><br /><span style="text-decoration: underline;">The Mechanical</span><br /><br />I was the next morning when switching wheels from my road bike to my TT bike that I noticed a problem that caused the brakes to bind whenever I applied pressure to the pedals. But, obviously, I rode the entire ride with my brakes rubbing on every pedal stroke. In a way, I do not feel so bad from getting dropped - I was pushing 50W+ more than everyone else!<br /><br />If it matters, I emailed Julien at Vitess about the problem, and he came by the next evening with a demo bike to ride and collected my bike for service.<br /><br /><span style="text-decoration: underline;">Next Year</span><br /><br />We will do this again next year, and look to expand the ride. I would also like to run recon rides for the GF Niagara in July 2012. This time, there will more sponsers, more support,&nbsp; different catagories for different level of riders, and just more riders! If you have any suggestions on how to improve the ride, please let me know.<br /><br /><br />
</div>