---title: PsychoCross Training hurtsvisible: true---Last year, I bought a CycloCross bike from a guy on Criags list. My original intention was to use it as a commuting bike because it had clipless pedals and drop bars. I didn't want a hyrid or worse, a mountain bike. I also thought that the following year I would try cyclocross which a friend of mine called psychocross. The bike is a Scott CX Team cross bike with full Ultregra components.

I rode the bike once in Durham Forest and learned a cross bike can't go where a mountain bike can. I did not have the skills to descent down hills or have the gears to get up some of the hills. For fun, in April, I signed up for the Paris Ancaster offroad race. This was the first time I road the cross bike for any significant distance. I will never forget the start. I self-selected myself in Corral 1 with the "top racers" thinking I would fit it. The pre-ride the day before proofed the opposite. I didn't have the skills to ride cross, but was stuck in Corral 1. At the start line the next day, the gun went off as I fumbled to get on my bike and the rest of the "pros" took off, one of them muttered, "Oh, a roadie with no cross skills". At that point, I promised myself I would learn to properly ride a cross bike. I needed to be able to jump on and off the bike quickly and how to handle the bike. Paris Ancaster was a learning experience.

Thus, when I saw Hardwood Ski and Bike was offering a Cross skills clinic with Mike Garrigan, a Canadian Cross champ, I jumped at the opportunity. It promised a day or working on the skills needed to do well in local cross races.

The clinic was this past Sunday. I spent the day at Hardwood. Jack, Hardwood's owner, came along with the group. There were about 8 of us in all. we started the day of with a short warm up ride around the roads of Hardwood. Apparently, most of the road have been paved over the years. We did travel on one gravel road and took the back way into the trails. Next, we moved to practicing the mounts and dismounts. I struggle with this procedure for a bit, but managed to get it. It is a matter of training the mind and body to work together...and convincing the mind that what looks impossible is quite possible.