---title: The Process of Riding the Trackvisible: true---One of the things that became apparent from 4.5 months of riding the Velodrome in London, ON is that riding the track is a process, like any other cycling process, or gaining experience and confidence. When I started back in Oct. 2010, I had no intention of racing the track; yet, I've done it twice with the second time racing a 190KM track race. I can still remember that first day doing the Track 1 course, holding into the bars for dear life wondering why I was doing it in the first place. However, I built up the skill and slowly some respect of the other riders at the track.

Today, the Vitress Racing team joined me at the track for their first experience. They did the Track 1 course and got to experience what I've been ranting about for some months. I also brought my friend, Robyn, who did track 1 back in November 2010. Everyone had a good time. Robyn's comment was, "I've never realized with all the spinning I do on the trainer how un-fit I am". She was hurting after 1.5 hours of riding the track and is looking forward to going back as are most of the Vitess guys.

Riding the track is a process. I base this process on my experience at the track and on some of the advice I have received. While shortcutting this process is possible, I won't recommended it. Riding the track quickly teaches you that there is a completely different world in track cycling. One that a roadie can learn, but road cycling alone isn't enough. Nevermind, it has it's own type of bike and own lingo to learn (Gear inches? huh?).

At the Forest City Velodrome, the process starts with the Track 1 course. This is a two hour session to introduce the rider to the track, to the fixed gear bike, and how to ride the track.