---title: FITS Toronto Motion Assessmentvisible: true---<div>
  One of the problems I have with coaching, is more coaches just assume you know how to do a weights program or are happy to pop into your local gym and pay some "kid", that has no idea how to ride a bike, show you have to do weights. Too many masters level athletes leave this stuff from websites, books, and videos and never have someone show them the proper methods. I do not trust "personal trainers" because how does one know they are qualified? I was looking for more. I wanted a program where I would be shown what to do. I had that experience when I was recovering from a broken leg in 2009. The Physiotherapist would run me through a weight training regiment as part of my recovery, and would critique my form. At one point, he told me I needed to learn to stand up straight. <br /><br />This is where my recent discover of FITS Toronto comes in. They are a physio company that has a full scale gym on site and they do Athletic development. The first step towards Athletic Development is a motion assessment. For a masters level athlete, this assessment is quite telling of ones (lack of) ability.<br /><br /><a href="http://www.fitstoronto.com/?page_id=462">http://www.fitstoronto.com/</a><br /> <br /> This morning I met with Lori at FITS for my motion assessment. She started by asking about my sport of cycling and my goals for the coming year. She then ran me through some simple motions with the camera turned on. It was quite interesting to be put through a few simple tests of simple motions that, well, I just could not do. Squat as low as you can go. Holding a bar over your head, squat as low as you can go - in my case, I might as well have given up because the tension in my torso was so much it was unbarable. Stand on one foot and ben over as far as you can go....which in my case was a test of can I stand on one foot without falling over. Too much time sitting around no doubt caused the problem. <br /> 
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br /> While it apparently isn't normally part of the assessment, I was asked if I would also do a running fitness test. My male ego never declines a challenge, do I did. Three 300m sprints sets with 1.5 mins is rest between. I did each sprint set in about 1:30. That was hard considering I usually have problems running across the street. Apparently, my left leg is stronger than my right (the one I broke).<br /> <br /> Part of the assessment had Lori tell me to learn to stand up straight. I was also instructed to get a foam roller and to work my back. Apparently, my left shoulder blade is closer to my spine than my right, and this would help straighten out my back.<br /><br />We ended the session with a discussion of steps. I was apparently to me I have a lot of work to do before even getting started on any weight training program. My flexibility is bad. I need to work on increasing it and some of the other quirks of my body to gain any benefit from a training program. I arranged to start with Lori in a week.<br /><br />In a sense, for me, it is a continuation of the physio I started when I broke my leg. But, I get the sense that it will be far more than that when I get going. I will be shown how to train correctly. I will work on my flexibility. It seem like a good start to winning on the bike next summer.<br /><br /> For $85, every masters level althete should consider the assessment. Further, FITS appears to be trying to put a masters level group together for Athletic Development (this is not just a weights program). The one thing I thought about when I went through physio is that a physiotherapist would make a great strength coach - and that is what this company does.<br /><br />
</div>