---title: A year in reviewvisible: true---<div>
  It's that time of year again when the leaves are turning brown (well, up here in the Great White North they are), the days are getting shorter, and the cyclocross bike is becoming the bike of choice. It is time to evaluate ones goals and accomplishments for the year and to set the goals for the coming year. Of course, if you live for Cyclocross, your season has just begun.<br /><br />For 2010, my goals were quite simple: 
  
  <ul>
    <li>
      Do OCUP road races for the experience. <ul>
        <li>
          I did the Bike the Bruce, Ninth River, Toronto Crit, Niagara Classic, etc. to name a few.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    
    <li>
      Get a Time Trial bike, do the weekly time 15km time trial, and be able to average 300W.
    </li>
    <li>
      Be able to ride hard in the middle of a long ride (cycle to the Midweek Crit, race it, and ride home as well as cycle to the Real Deal TT, race it, and ride home)
    </li>
    <li>
      Cycle to Niagara Falls from home on my own
    </li>
  </ul> The goals for the year were pretty simple. My racing schedule was rather adhoc and I did races when I felt like it. Given the M3 races I found rather easy, I usually did not taper back before a race. I paid for that by never being able to place better than in the teens in most races and in some races, finish way back in 30th place. However, for the most part, races were for the experience and I viewed them as a hard workout. So, I did a lot of silly things like go off the front on the first lap, stay at the front on the Toronto Crit, etc..
  
  <br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />If I think of things I am proud of this year, two things come to mind: falling off the front at the Ninth River road race and finishing 10th in the Niagara Classic.<br /><br />In the Ninth River RR. on the first lap I had a goal to get the front and get a photo of my off the front of the pack on the first lap. While I had wanted that to happen, I did not know if I could do it. I could not find anyone of our guys in the pack to go with me and try to get into a break. I actually never expected to make it to the finish line on the first lap by myself. However, what happened next was completely unexpected. The roads were a little wet from rain that morning, on the first lap on the third corner I decided I would rather not have the pack in the way on the turn and risk going down. The corner was on a downhill and greater than 90 degrees. I push my way to the front of the pack and held my position at the front into the turn. After the turn I was first around the corner and I stood on the pedals to keep my speed going. 100m up the road was a slight hill,&nbsp; so I got out of the saddle on that hill while I waited for the pack to catch me. At the top of the hill, I found it odd that the pack was not by my side. I looked back. I was 100m off the front of the pack. I had not even tried to get off the front. I could not believe it. So, I decided to soft pedal in TT mode and see how far off the front I could get. If I was pushing 300W I would be amazed. By the time I got to the fourth corner, I was something like 300m off the front with the pack almost no where to be seen. I can recall coming around that corner and commenting to friends snapping photos on the side of the road, "Where is everyone?". I managed to keep it going to the start finish line and around the next two corners before I easied up and allowed the pack to catch me. I have a photo of the pack crossing the start/finish line and me some 400m off the front of the pack. I will never forget that experience. I just wish I tried a bit hard to keep it going to see how long I could have stayed away or better yet, I had others with me. I later found out that a team mate came to the front to block, so that helped.<br /><br />The second proud moment was the Niagara Classic road race. When I checked the course out the day before, I thought there would be no way I would finish anything other than the back of the pack. The course including Effingham Hill which hits 15% for about 100m and is a 2-3km tough climb to the start/finish line. There was also the matter of a fast descent into the climb, and I am not very good at descending. On race day, I intended to stay mid-pack to conserve energy for the climb. One the first lap that proved to be a bad idea because on the descent everyone was a bit shaky. I quickly abandoned that idea and decided to stay near the front. I managed to stay 3rd to 5th wheel back at the front for the remaining laps. However, what I found striking about this race is NO ONE CHALLENGED THE HILL. NO ONE. NADA. For the remaining laps I was usually the first one into the climb. On the second last lap (as it usually happens), I was third up the climb, and I am not a climber. From that point, I figured I would be in a good position to place well at the finish. On the final lap, I ejected my water bottles and was first to the base of the hard part of the climb. I used a controlled pace up the climb and noticed a few (very few) riders riding away from me. One guy blew up with 100m to go. I manage to pass the finish line in 10th place. While that does not sound like much, my best placement all year was 13th and I got 10th on a hill top finish. My only regret after watching the video I made of the race is not sprinting to the line. I left some on the course. I should have given it all I had left. I think I will make this race my "A" race for the coming year. Since no one wants to work on the hill, I will just train the course and go for a podium spot. Of course, over the last weekend I road Effingham Hill after 130km in my legs with a 11-21 on the back and thought the hill had gotten shorter. Go figure.<br /><br />Thus, I feel I manage to accomplish my modest goals for the season. This year I went to race for the sake of racing. I did the OCUP races. I managed to do 300W around a 15km TT course. I did racing in the middle of a long ride. As a bonus,&nbsp; I managed to stay off the front several times in the Midweek Crit as well and got into a break at least once. So far, I have managed to ride to Niagara four times with three times being on my own. The second time was a 210km ride averaging 32km/h. All good. In 2012, I have lofty goals and they center around wanting to claim podium spots or at least given it my all trying, but that is for another post.<br /><br />
</div>