---title: Track Nationals: Day 1/2 Reportvisible: true---Day 1 of the Canadian Track Nationals came and went Saturday. I didn't have any races, but spend the time getting used to the track. The track was open for 2.5hrs, and I managed to get a hour's time in doing two 1K flying efforts and two standing 500m efforts before doing a cool down on the trainer.

Day 2 saw an early start as I got to the track to try on the big gear required for the flying 200m TT and find out the correct line to take to get the best speed. It seem to work because once I got my time on the track, I pulled off a 12.689sec flying 200m, a new PB. The best I had done before was 14 secs in Bloomer Park in Rochester Hills in the summer. Apparently, my time translates into an 8.8 sec flying lap at the Forest City Velodrome where I have never done better than 9.8secs. The time placed me 6 of 12 for the Master B category which was good enough for the concellation sprint (5-8) placing.

<hr id="system-readmore" />

The next race was the concellation sprint. There are times when things don't go well, and one has to learn from experience. Not having actually done a sprint race in about 2 years, nevermind a sprint race where we are started by holders on the start line, I was caught off guard by something so stupid: when the commissaire blows the whistle, THAT MEANS GO. We were lined up riders four riders deep on the start line because we were sprinting places 5 to 8. The bottom two riders didn't miss the whistle, and got a 20 m gap before me and "the other guy" decide move. In this 3 lap sprint race, timing is everything. So, really, the race was over before I ever got off the start line. Opps. They got a 50m gap, and we could not catch on. So, I ended up 8th over all in the Master B sprint tournament.  I didn't really care, because the only reason I entered the sprint tournament in the first place was to see if I could beat my 200m time. And I did. I never thought I would even get to do a sprint. So, I learned how to ... um... react to the whistle. Doh!

The last race of the day was the 750m Time Trial. Our bikes are put into the start gate and we are let loose on the end of the countdown to go all out for 3 laps. While I have played with the start gate at the Forest City Velodrome, this would be the first time I actually used one in competition. The race didn't really go well. I felt fast, but as it is a sprinters race, I ended up 9 of 10 with 58secs. That said, that time would have saw me beat my best 1k (kilo) time of 1:20 if my age group was going the full 1000m effort. I figured my kilo time would have been around 1:16 beating my best kilo time by 4 secs. I would love to try a kilo. I am the current master's record holder for the kilo at the Forest City Velodrome.

... on to day 3....

 