---title: Life has been busy...visible: true---I never really know if anyone actually reads what I write; however, I do it more for me as much as hope that at some point, what I write will prove useful to some of the cycling community. I have been busy lately. I would like to say busy training, but training this year has largely been put on hold because of last year's crash.

Three days per week I try to get out to the D'Ornellas Fitness Factory to build my cycling strength and skill. Last Sat. was an extremely hard ride of hill repeats. This was the kind of ride that I would do almost weekly when I was on training plans from the club coach. I was looking forward to a hard ride on Sat. and I got it. 2.5 hrs of grinding away to attempt to get to Zone 4. I managed two intervals at Zone 4 and the rest I struggled to get to the top of Zone 3. For the interval, a whole minute, I pulled out all the stops and pushed myself into Power Zone 5. This was the type of ride that I found last year takes a few tries to get the mind to work with the body instead of against it. The negative self talk of "I can't - I can't" needs to be shut off before the legs do what needs to get done.

Of course, the last few weeks have also been filled with Physio work outs. My right leg has is finally 98% better and almost as strong as the left. There is some find motor control issues, but it will take time to work itself out. I'm finding Cross Country skiing on weekends is getting easier...nevermind, it helps with dem find motor control issues. I skiied 5km in about 30 mins yesterday (Sunday). The fastest I've gone yet. I manage to pass a few slower skiiers. I still have to get coodination together and learn to ski down hills without crashing, but on the flats, I fell I can really move.

Lastly, saw a good article today from Bicycling's Sitting In column. Check out it: <a href="http://bicycling.com/blogs/sittingin/2010/02/19/the-passion-of-the-twerps/" target="_blank">Sitting In</a>. It's about not trying to be an ass on group rides and riding the group's speed, never trying to prove how much better you are than some of the other riders. Riding the group pace just seems like a good idea. Racing is for races.