---title: Sacroiliac Joint Painvisible: true---<div>
  Racing is about learning. So, today, I am passing another tip along that I imagine only 50% of athletes know about. Physiotherapists do more than injury rehab.<br /><br />After the race at the track last Saturday, I drove back from London, ON to Toronto as usual. As I got out of the car, I braced myself for the usual stiffness of the almost two hour long drive. What I did not anticipate is the back pain the shortly ensued. I usually have some kind of soreness after the hard efforts at the track, but the lower back pain was completely unexpected. I thought nothing of it, because I thought it would just go away like the rest of the stiffness that follows the drive back from the track. However, that never happened.<br /><br />While the lower back pain was tolerable for Sunday and Monday - I did my usual workouts on the bike, but Tuesday it became unbearable. I imagine the bad posture at the office didn't help the issue, but it got bad enough that it hurt to even move let alone get out of the chair. Thinking I knew everything, I did two things: Cancelled my appointment for strength training at FITS and arranged for a massage thinking it was a muscle issue and nothing more. Well, the massage softened me up. The comment from the massage therapist was "your body is hard as a brick" - and I do not believe that was a compliment. However, a half a hour later, the pain was back. Oddly, the move I moved around, the better it felt.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />One the Wednesday, the pain was still unbearable, so I took the day off from work. Given I live walking distance from my GP, I booked a doctor's appointment in the afternoon. I knew what the result of that consultation would be: here is your prescription, Mr. Buckaway and I was right. I had a prescription for a powerful anti-inflammatory. Although, I have to admit, Ibuprofen didn't do anything when I took it.<br /><br />When I cancelled my appointment with FITS, Lori, reminded me she is a Physiotherapist and if the pain still is there on the Thursday, the date of my next appointment, I should see her to see what she can do. So, yesterday, I went to FITS and Lori spent a half hour working on my back. She diagnosed the problem as a Sacroiliac Joint issue. Apparently, the left side Sacroiliac Joint was stuck and the right side Sacroiliac Joint was moving normally. The Sacroiliac Joint is the joint the joint that connects the spine to the pelvis. So, it wasn't a muscle issue. We chuckled over the fact I should have come in on Tuesday. Anyways, after a half hour, I was moving normally and the pain was almost gone. I was able to spend the remaining half hour running through some of the motion exercises I would normally do.<br /><br />So, I learned something new - albeit with some embarrassment. I learned that Physiotherapists do more than accident rehab. They are more skilled with skeletal issues than even most GP's. I am happy I using FITS. Check them out:<br /><br />Website: <a target="_blank" title="FITS Toronto" href="http://www.fitstoronto.com">FITS Toronto</a><br />Twitter: <a target="_blank" title="Dr. Thomas Lam" href="https://twitter.com/#!/thomaslam">Dr. Thomas Lam</a>
</div>