---title: Ghost in the Attic: Previous Injuries as Artificial Limiters on Performancevisible: true---<div>
  Wednesday night, I trained at the track in what ended up being somewhat educational experience. I discovered a few things:<br />1) Until I can learn to hold the bars of the bike with one hard and go around the entire track, there is no way I will ever be able to do a Madison race.<br />2) My limits of legs speed cause me to until to do a flying lap faster than 48km/h and usually causes me to fall off the pack when the speed pickup up over 50km/h.<br /><br />Of course, it never really crossed my mind that old injuries could be getting in the way until last night. I suffered a dislocated shoulder and a broken leg over the last many years that have no really bothered me in normal every day life. But for cycling, it appears to be a completely different matter.<br /><br />Approximately 15 years ago, I think I dislocated my left shoulder. I don't know if it was dislocated for sure, because I did not seek medical attention at the time (<em>dumb!</em>). But it felt like my shoulder popped back out and back in when I slipped and fell down a icey hill outside my apartment. I remember that day and the shoulder hurt like hell for about a hour. About two years ago, my physiotherapist noticed that there was a discrepancy in the size of the muscles in my shoulders. Arguably, because my left shoulder is weaker, it possess less dexterity, and thus, I just can't seem to hold the bars of the bike with my left had with any degree of stability. No Madison racing for me.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />Two years ago I crashed at the Midweek Crit, broke my leg, spent two weeks in hospital, and some 6 months learning to walk again. It was not a lot of fun. I did learn is takes a lot of muscles to control one's leg, but because I could walk again and ride my bike, after some six months, I stopped physio. My therapist at the time suggested I keep up the exercises, and I did for a few weeks, but that did not last long. It became apparent about two weeks ago at FITS Toronto that my right leg (the one I broke) is both weaker and less dexterous. If you recall, I am using FITS Toronto as my strength coach. I did one legged hops on the left leg, but barely could hop on the right. The right leg would also fatigue that much faster. No doubt the rod in my leg also is a small limiter. So, my right leg can't do as much work as the left. Formally, my right leg was my dominate leg. At the track, it seems that this lack of control of the right leg may be a limiter on how fast my legs can turn the pedals. If I can not balance well on the right leg or hop on it, how can I get the pedals to move faster? Also, before the crash sprinting over 1000W was easy. Now, I have a hard time getting over 1000W. I suspect my left leg is doing a lot more work placing a limiter on my sprinting ability.<br /><br />This topic came up because I happen to hear a discussion of one of the former young track star as he was trying to get back on the bike after a knee injury and he had the same issues I was having in control and speed of this damaged leg. It was an interesting conversation. However, that lead me to becoming frustrated. I came to the realization that due to my past injuries which I never fully dealt with, I will not be able to reach my goals for the coming road season. I will be looking at perhaps another year to motion training (my term for what I am doing with FITS Toronto where I work with a Physiotherapist for more than weight training) to compensate and rebuild the muscles from the past injuries. It seems obvious that until I can do so, I will not be able to get the next level of cycling against others that do not have these issues.<br /><br />The point: When looking at getting to a high level in cycling or your sport, what injuries do you have that many be putting artifical limiters on your performance? Think about it. Until you deal with them, you may never make it to standing on the podium. I intend to get there, but I have to fix the issues with this old body before I can hope to collect any kind of hardware after the finish of a cycling race.<br /><br />
</div>