---title: Hell of the North was, well, hellvisible: true---Some time ago, I decided to make April a cross month. I did Paris Ancaster last weekend and yesterday, I did the Hell of the North race/ride. Weather-wise, Paris Ancaster was the true hell of the North, because we had snow/rain/hail/wind/etc. on the ride. However, I made to it to the finish without incident. The Hell of the North ride was not to be so. It was to be a day in Hell.

The weather was good considering. The ride started wtih the temp at 3C. I overdressed too much. The temp climbed quickly and 30 mins into the ride I was ready to start dumping layers. Chalk it up to 7 weeks or riding in the cold, I've grown an affliction to being cold on ride...even if it means being too hot later. The race starts and ends at Musslemans Lake north of Toronto. The race started what I would consider slow. I expected the pack to take off but it didn't. I think the first 15-20km was done at something like 30km/h. I didn't mind because I would like to be able to stay with the pack. The pace was leisurely enough to see a few guys rocket off the front and get far enough ahead that they were becoming out of site.

However, after the short climb at Herald and Kennedy rode, I was screaming down the hill with the pack, attempted to shift up to the big ring, and then, after much noise, my chain broke. Luckily, I bought a chain breaker toolset the week before I put it in my seat post bag. So, I managed to fix the chain after a few attempts of getting a working link. Then, I noticed the front derailer was bend out of shape. After some adjustment, I manage to get it to stop rubbing on the tire and sit so the chain could move. 20 mins later, I was back on my bike and rolling. I later noticed the tire wobbling and the rear brake binding, so the rear rim was also bend. But I continued on the ride - some 70km more either hopping off the bike to switch in/out of the big ring or using my foot to move the chain.

Of course, the pack was long gone. What I found surprising is the number of stragglers that passed me while I was on the side of the road. This situation made the effort of continuing bariable because there was always someone on the horizon for me to chase down. And chase down I did. I must have passed some 10 people on the ride. No sooner than I would pass one person, someone else would pop up ahead for me to chase down. That fact allowed me to keep the speed up. I saw 30-34km/h most of the time on my garmin.

The offroad sections of the course were short, but either extremely rough or extremelly muddy. There was a lot of walking through the muddy sections because a lot of the "road" was washed out. I got lost near the end between consession 4 and consession 3 where the course wasn't really marked. The road seemed to go through private property...and a few of us puttered around looking for the trail. When we found consession 3, I bounded for the hills, and never saw the people that caught up with me again.

After some hard offroad sections, I found my way to Line 9 and back to the start. Four hours and eight minutes. A broken chain. Broken derailer. Brakes rubbing the entire way. Got lost. Found the way. Made it back. I walked into the Cedar Beach Hall just in time to see the awards. I received a prize from the prize table: I picked a hat.

While it was a story to tell, I wouldn't do this ride again unless I could keep up with the pack. If one can stay with them, I am sure the finish is a good one...but to ride 3.5 hours on my own - I could have been out on my TT Bike. I can't see why anyone would ride this ride as a tour because you can just do it on your own. While the race is a good one for endurnace on the cross bike, I will most likely do the Good Friday Road Race next year.