---title: Training at the Trackvisible: true---I started riding the <a target="_blank" title="Forest City Velodrome" href="http://www.forestcityvelodrome.ca">Forest City Velodrome</a> in London, ON in October as a way to train indoors without having ride the trainer. I do not what happened this year, but I just could not wrap my mind around indoor training. In October, I did the track one course at the Velodrome and in November, I did track two. In December, I bought my track bike. I have been riding the velodrome about twice per week ever since - even though, it is a 1-3/4 hr drive from my home in Toronto.

The way I look at it, I spend August driving to Creemore, ON to train on the hills of Niagara Escarpment. The drive is 1-1/2 hours. Add 15 mins more, and I'm in London.

I will saying two things: Riding the track is harder than riding outdoors and riding the track is easier.

<hr id="system-readmore" />
It is harder than riding outdoors because it requires intense concentration to be able to ride around the track at speed. On the blue line, speeds during "recreation" sessions can push upwards of 42-48km/h. At that speed, one laps takes about 13 secs. One need only loose concentration for a second to go flying off the track. So, one has to learn how to handle the bike on the track, and that can only be done with practice. Further, one is riding a track bike. No gears. No brakes. One of the things one also has to learn is to pedal. While that sounds like an odd thing to say, roadies soon figure out that any attempt to led the pedals spin is met rather violently with the feet being dragged around. I've had some near mishaps because I forgot that I had to keep pedalling - especially important after come down from a high speed to a slower speed. It's easy to lose control. I have been lucky and not caused any crashes (although, I have had a close call). Holding your line is extremely important on the track, and I would say 10x more important than riding outside. You literately have &nbsp;path about 15" (the width of rollers) in which to ride. If you deviate much beyond that, you would have left the blank/red/blue line and risk riding into another rider. It is also the riders responsibility to shoulder check before changing "lanes". Something that isn't as important outside. It is easy to forgot to shoulder check and run right into another rider.

Riding the track is also easier. There are no hard hills to climb and there is no wind to deal with. Maintaining 32km/h is easy on the track. 32km/h outside is hard. The track becomes hard when you hit about 40km/h. I did a ride the other day on my cross bike outside, and had a hard time holding 30km/h, nevermind 40km/h. Now, on the track, there is a slight grade while moving from the straight away to the corner on the blue line, but it barely a 1% grade.

Of course, the track offers washrooms and a water stop when you need it. Just come off the track. Anything you need, is there. No need to find a corner store or gas station. However, no food or drink is allowed on the track, so, going long requires stops whereas riding road, one reaches into one's back pocket.

Today also marks an accomplishment. In preparation for the 190KM race on Sat. Feb 5 at the track, I have been going longer and longer. Last week, I rode 100KM. Today, I rode 142km or 987 laps on the track. I felt good. I still do. My body is relearning what it takes to go long. 4 hours riding time produces almost 2 hours in Zone 4. Had I not chitchatted as much, I would have had some 45mins longer riding and done 160km.

For a review of that workout, see: [142km Ride on the track][4].

 [4]: http://tpks.ws/Qufsdgac "142km Ride on the track"