---title: Track Secrets: Leg Speedvisible: true---<div>
  In track cycling, one rides a fixed gear bike which means there is only one gear. To do well on the track requires one to be able to spin the legs at a very fast (read: ridiculously fast) pace. Good track cyclists are able to spin and keep it under control at 150, 160, or 170RPM for a pedal cadence. On the road, good roadies have to be able to spin at 120-130RPM to be able to sprint to the finish. So, getting fast legs is a must to be competitive.<br /><br />Nothing more obvious at the Wednesday night training session at the track: I can't spin fast enough. After being told to put on a lighter gear (49/17 or 75 Gear Inches) because some of the "youth" less than half my age were creaming me on the sprints, I could not hold the pace at the high speeds. During the 100 lap roll up, when the pack took off with 20 laps to go, I got dropped. I just could not get the legs to move faster enough to hold the pace of 50km/h+. I usually ride with a big gear so I have a chance of keeping up. My limit seems to be around 120-125RPM under load. However, to achieve 60km/h on that gearing, one needs to do 150RPM.
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br /><br />Thus, the trainer running the session handout out a "track secret". Leg Speed intervals. While I have done these before, on a road bike, I've never really spent any time on the track bike doing these. Thus, track leg speed intervals involve riding the rollers (not trainer) for a one minute work session where one spins the bike up as faster as one is able and holds it for the prescribed time.<br /><br />On rollers (not a trainer) using 81 gear inchs on the bike:<br />1) 10 min warm-up<br />2) 10 sec spin up (180RPM+) followed by 50 sec recovery<br />3) repeat 10 times<br />4) 10 min cool down<br /><br />As one gets better, the set is extended to 12, 15, etc.. Then, the work stage is changed to 15 seconds on/45 second off. 20 seconds on/40 seconds off, etc.. One can extend the workout with a 3 min recovery between sets and do it again if you are truly masochistic. Do three times per week. 30 mins of work, and done. The key here is to try the brain to fire fast enough to get the legs around.<br /><br />I have done 140RPM for a minute and 160RPM for 10 seconds on the rollers before, but never part of an interval set. This will be a fun test of my ability and ultimately, make me faster on the track,&nbsp; and better at sprinting on the road.<br /><br />[Poking the interweb, I found a thread on Bike Forums one developing leg speed on the track: <a title="Track Leg Speed" href="http://www.bikeforums.net/archive/index.php/t-480510.html" target="_blank">CLICK HERE</a>]<br /><br />UPDATE: On trying out the above, I managed to sustain 170-175RPM for 12 secs on the second try. I would say this works.
</div>