---title: Hiring a coach: Can Toastmasters help in bike racing?visible: true---<div>
  (BTW, no Ed never suggested I do toastmasters - I made that connection myself)<br /><br />Some years ago, I joined Toastmasters to improve my speaking skills. One of the skills that Toastmasters helps its members work on is thinking on your feet. You see, at the beginning of each Toastmaster's session is the table topics seasion which is meant as a skill builder. This seasion is where the group creates a list of topics on small pieces of paper and puts them into a hat. The hat is passed around the table and each person pulls a topic. Then, the person has one minute to speak intelligently on a topic. It is a hard thing for the newbie because most people just can not come up with something to talk about. It is a skill that must be learned. This evening in meeting Ed Veal, coach and elite bike racer, I discovered the same thing in bike racing: that quite off the top of you head type thinking is requires to win bike races. It is those quick split second decisions to jump to catch someone's wheel or to attack that are required. It is something I know I need to work on. It is something Ed pointed out is quite related to my "disability" with thinking on my feet. Maybe Toastmasters would help my bike racing?<br /><br />Wednesday evening last I met with Ed Veal of <a href="http://www.realdealracing.ca/" target="_blank">Real Deal Racing</a>. He is well known in the local racing scene as the guy to attempt to beat. Ed usually places in the top five of any race he enters. When Ed shows up to the Midweek Crit in Mississauga, everyone knows they are in for a hard workout. He placed fourth in the Blue Mountain Centurion C100 because his "body wasn't cooperating and cramped up" and he had to fall back from the break to the chase group. He finished 4th overall fighting pain and cramping for most of the race. I finishing in something like 254th place.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />The fact Ed races and wins is something on my mind when selecting to speak to him about coaching. I had a recommendation from another cyclist about him in the spring which helped push me along. I didn't engage him sooner because this season, for me, was about buying some toys, learning to show up at OCUP races, and taking another trip to France.&nbsp;<br /><br />I met with Ed in Studio 992 in Aurora. It is in a friend's personal workout room/gym. He had his computrainer setup and ready for me. He setup my bike on the machine and I got on to ride. For the first part, I just rode easy whilst he asked some questions on the typical "How old are you?" and things like that. Then, he got into strengths and weaknesses...and he was not looking for cycling specific things. He was more interest in personal strengths and weaknesses. At this point, my mind drew a blank. Normally in job interviews, I come with the strength and weakness questions memorized, buy Ed caught me completely offguard. He was interested in getting to know how I think. It was as if I were in a shrinks office laying on the couch with some strange German guy asking questions like "Zo, how das zat make you feel?". It was at this point that my inability to think on my feet seemed to click with him (and hit home with me).<br /><br />One my issues, weakness if you will, is a slow reaction time in a race. If someone comes up to me and says, "Ok, Mark, let's go!" and sprints away. What usually happens in these sitations is the person sprints away and I'm left thinking "Huh? What was that? Are you talking to me?" If I happen to notice a break away happening, I think too long if I should jump to join them. Ed made the connection between the two.&nbsp;This is what lead me to think that maybe Toastmasters my help with bike racing - my ability to think on the spot which is also be important in bike racing might improve. We spent the next hour with him asking me questions such that he could get to know me and my goals. We talked about some his experiences both on and off the bike.<br /><br /> The last part of the session was a short ramp test. I was quite hesitant. The Centurion took a lot out of me and I had not fully recovered. The process was simple: ride streadily increase your heart rate over a 6-10 min period until failure. Just before failure, get out of the saddle and sprint. The idea would be to determine the max heart rate. Typically me, when given instructions I do not always know to ask for clarification - the first ramp test was a failure. I exploded because I got out of the saddle too late. So, we did it again. This time I got it. Just before my legs gave out, I got out of the saddle and gave it all I got. I think I lasted five more seconds before I could not go any harder. Max heart rate for that test was 168. I felt good. It was fun. Funny, how finishing a hard effort always feels really good. I was fatigued from the Centurion and MG Crit, but still managed to push out a 5-6 minute max effort.<br /><br />Lastly, Ed told me about his training program and the costs involved. I think he has to be one of the most competitively priced coaches I have come across. He suggested he likes to meet with clients once per month to have a face to face. Check. He uses trainingpeaks.com for his coaching business to manage his clients. Check. The one thing I hate about most coaches is that they think an emailed spreadsheet sent off once per month is coaching. I was looking for more. From what Ed described, he is very much a hands on type of guy and very involved in his athletes progress. Check. This was something I was very much looking for. Ed is all about the social aspects of cycling and regularly holds group sessions in his studio. He is about the people he coaches, and not just someone that makes training plans - at least, that is the impression I got.<br /><br />Can Toastmasters improve cycling? Good question. But, Mr. Veal is my coach and see if I can start winning races. This coming Saturday I'm joining his group to do a CCA protocol ramp test. More working until failure. Oh boy....er...bring it on!<br /><br /><br />&nbsp;
</div>