---title: Gran Fondo Recon Ridevisible: true---<div style="text-align: justify;">
  What: Blue Mountain Gran Fondo Recon ride<br />When: Saturday, August 27, 2011 (Rain date, Sunday, August 28) @ 8:30AM<br />Where: Starbucks in the Blue Mountain Village<br />100M Route: <a href="http://classic.mapmyride.com/route/ca/on/blue%20mountains/778131410395178522">Route Map</a> (Short Ride: <a href="http://classic.mapmyride.com/route/ca/on/blue%20mountains/907131410462294263">Route Map</a>)<br /><br />We will ride the Blue Mountain Gran Fondo route. We will ride the 164km (100mile) route. My plan is to meet up with the regular Collingwood group at the base of Grey Road 19. That worked out last time.&nbsp;<br /><br />All are welcome that have group riding experience and can hold 30km/h on the flats. This should not be your first century ride this year. If you are slower or are akin to whining, you will likely get dropped. We will wait a limited amount of time on the top of hills, but remember, come race day, no one will wait be waiting.<br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;"></span>Riders not wanting to go the 100miles can cut the ride short. There has alway been a small group that cuts off before Eugena. That ride is about 127km.<br /><br />There will be stops in Creemore and Eugena, which are two less than race day. So, plan accordingly.<br /><br />Please email me, mark at buckaway dot ca if you are coming. Currently, there group should be about 40 people, so there will be water and snacks provided in Creemore and there may be water/snacks provided in Eugena if there is anything left from Creemore. Otherwise, there is a restaurant in Eugena. <br />&nbsp;<br /><em><strong>PLEASE READ:</strong></em><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">This is meant to be a quick paced ride; but not a race. You are responsible for yourself on the ride (ie. don't sue me).&nbsp; Everyone must understand how to ride in a double paceline; although, everyone does they own ride up climbs. Please print your own map or load your garmin with the route in case you get dropped. We would like to see everyone keep together, but we are not riding slower than 30km/h on the flats. The only whining that will be tolerated is that the ride is too slow. We will wait on hill tops, but if you are 10 mins off the back, you will be riding on your own. We will wait for mechanicals, but if you insist on taking 20 mins to change a flat and are refusing help, have a nice ride by yourself. There are only two planned rest stops, so plan accordingly. Wear sunscreen!</span>
</div>