---title: Thor Expressor Bar Endurance Race at FCVvisible: true---February 5, 2011 will be a day to remember. The Forest City Velodrome in London, ON on conjunction with the Thor Expresso Bar in Toronto set the stage to make an epic event. The event was a 190km race on the track to remember the 190km London to Toronto race held back in the 1970's.

First, I never actually intended to enter the race. While I had thought about it considering the previous summer I had worked to build endurance though 160-180km training rides, I was in the midst of my prep/build period of my training for outdoors and wasn't really in much shape to go long. However, when the race looked like it may not run due to lack of participants, I signed up to "do my part" for the track.

I spent the two sundays at the track prior to the race trying to go long to get a feel for the race. One sunday, I did a 100km. The Sunday prior to the race, I did 142km or 987 laps in about 4 hours. If I had not spent so much time taking breaks, I would have done 160km that day. My training plan was starting to add 4 hour rides on the weekends, so it kind of fit into the plan. The race was another matter.

<hr id="system-readmore" />
Race day came. I planned to be at the track all day so my son can ride. I used the rec session in the morning to spin the legs at recovery pace; although, for the most part, I followed my son, Matthew, around the track.&nbsp; 

When race time came, I got on the rollers to warm up. 10 mins before race start, I went to switch over my gears. I had a 17 on the back for warm up and a 15 for racing (50 on the front). I found that combination worked during the training sessions. Of course, when I took the wheel off, a piece of the barring casing fell to the ground. 10 mins prior to race start, and I didn't have a bike to ride. Rob, the FCV coordinator, jumped up and scrounged up a wheel. The first attempt failed. A disc wheel had the wrong sprocket on it, and we couldn't get off the 15 sprocket from my wheel. Rob managed to pull another wheel from a rental bike and I quickly installed it. I managed to get on the bike and ride up to the start line at the moment they rolled off to the start. It because obvious to me at that point, if I wanted to continue to race track, I needed a spare wheel set, spare set of chain rings, and &nbsp;proper tool kit. Had it not been for Rob and others at the track, I would have started a few laps down.

After that near miss, the start was uneventful. We did neutralized laps as Rob did the introductions of the riders. When it was my turn, I did my flying lap around the track to the back of the field.&nbsp;

Race start: I knew this much was coming. When the bell went off to signify race start, everyone took off at max pace. The average at the start was 47km/h which, for me, was top speed on the track. It didn't take long because I couldn't hold the pace and eased up because a few other guys to conserve some energy. Unlike the rules suggested, there were really only one paceline on the black and not really one on the blue. Beyond that, the lane was largely wide open for attacks and passing. However, this session wasn't a rec ride: it was a race and all the nice rules for rec rides didn't apply. Now, there were attacks. Attack after attack. Some of the top guys could keep the pace going what seemed to be 42-45km/h. When I recovered, at times, I jumped in for a few laps. However, I know from experience last year, I can only sprint for about 300m because I get tired. That will change I hope this year as I work to improve.

I had planned to stay on the track for 30 min sessions and then come off for drink/food. I wasn't the first to take a pit stop. However, for me, 30 mins was long enough to no drop too far behind too quickly and short enough that I could force myself to keep going until the 30 min mark appeared. I used my Garmin to time the laps.

It was a hard effort because I felt until I was going 38km/h or better, there wasn't much point of being there. So, at times, after I recovered in the paceline, I jumped out of it and sprinted with some of the faster guys. When I tired, I dropped back into the paceline. There seemed to be a set group of "B" riders that were going the same thing. Some could go longer than others. A some could keep the pace of the leaders. Me, I wasn't really prepared for the race, and went as fast I could.

Two things stand out in my mind for this race. First, some of the riders came close enough to my face when passing that I could almost feel their arms rub against my nose (Kleenex anyone?). Secondly, something happened at the 100km priem point in the race. It was about 28mins into my interval when the 10 laps to priem was announced. It was like getting my second wind. I guess I figured I could blow myself up at this point, because I would drop off the track for a break; so, I jumped up with the leaders and held it for almost 10 laps until they passed the line. Part of it, I guess, was that I occationally got annoyed enough doing 34km/h behind some of the slower guys to pickup. But at that moment around the 100km priem, I was on fire.

When the 150km priem point came, I decided I had enough. The rules suggested that any rider 200 laps behind would be pulled. When I stopped to take a break, I was 202 laps behind. I though in the towel. I could have keep spinning easy I suppose, but I though holding 34km/h when everyone was was going 40 seemed a bit dangerous nevermind my legs were starting to get twinges of getting cramps. I was happy I on the track for the 150km priem, and happen to be able to ride for about four hours.

Would I do it again? Certainly. However, next time I will try to train some six weeks prior and go through the motions of going the full distance. I will also come with spare parts for the bike and make damn sure to make adjustments 30 mins prior to the race.

I didn't technical finish the race. Ever if I did, I was too far behind to win anything anyways. &nbsp;Thus, no medals or awards for me. But it didn't matter. I did it for the workout and the experience. I did it to be able to mix it up with the experienced racers. Considering it was my second time racing the track, I think I did OK. I feel good except for the well worked ass muscles.