---title: Le vélo de Vitess est très rapidevisible: true---<div>
  <strong>Showroom Experience </strong>
</div>

<span style="font-size: small;">Over the weekend, I test drove a 2010 Vitess bike - le vélo de Vitess.&nbsp;This is somewhat of a strange story because I never really intended to test the bike. Some months ago, fellow D'Ornellas club member Scott Judges posted to the club's mailing list that Vitess was offering a "win a set of carbon wheels" contest. So I entered the contest (did not win). Julien, Vitess's president founder emailed me asking if I wanted to test drive a bike. I really was only interested in the carbon wheels. This was back in February/March and it was still cold out. While I had been riding outside, I thought I'd rather wait until it was warm. I forgot about it until a week or more ago when Julien contacted me again asking if now is the time to test the bike.</span>

<span style="font-size: small;">Grudgingly, I accepted the test drive offer. I wasn't really in a position to buy anything. Last Friday, I dropped by his shop on Lakeshore Rd Blvd in Etobicoke. I had cycled by Vitess a few times on the way to work in Oakville (I live in Scarborough) so I knew where the shop location. Entering the Vitess shop is like entering a Lamborghini dealership. You know the type. There is one or two cars in the middle of the vast showroom floor and shopping is by appointment only. Vitess has a bikes hanging with fishing lines from the ceiling. One gets the sense that to buy a bike from Vitess means handing over one's first born child which may or may not be a good thing - it depends on how much you like riding, but I digress. Keep reading. You will be shocked at the cost of the bike.</span>

<hr id="system-readmore" />

<span style="font-size: small;">Julien greeted me and showed me the demo bike. A 2010 model decked out with a Vitess carbon frame, DuraAce 7900 group set, full carbon bars, stem and carbon seatpost from 3T (Ltd), carbon seat from Fi'zi:k, and Equinox tubular full carbon wheels. I was completely amazed on picking up the bike. It is extremely light - 6kg (14lbs) - under the UCI limit. I uttered some superlatives when I grabbed the bike in relation to the weight of the bike. I am a newbie at best when it comes to bike components, but this is the lightest bike I have ever picked up. It has a very slick look that says "I am fast". Julien and I spoke for about an hour as I asked a few questions about the component selection for the bike. It is hard to find someone to spend time answering questions and I appreciated the time he took with me. We talked about the benefits and drawbacks of tubular tires. He is the first one to tell me that if a rider blows a tubular tire on a ride, and there is no team car behind, you are potentially calling home to get a ride. Shocking perhaps, but I appreciated his honesty. I asked why not use SRAM RED components? He explained that while SRAM has the double tap shifters, they make trade-offs to lose a few hundred grams compared to the DuraAce components in component design. I asked if he could build a wheelset with a PowerTap in it, and he said he could - but would have to look into sourcing the hub. Apparently, he likes to avoid the Canadian Bike Syndicate because they overcharge dealers. (don't want to close too many doors...!)&nbsp; I would expect to see PowerTap being offered as an option for his wheelset in the near future.</span>

<span style="font-size: small;">We then talked about the cost of the bike. A fully tricked out 2010 Vitess bike is $7500. Well in fact, Julien told me that you can build one for $13,000, but then you get Di2 AND Lightweight Standard wheels. When I finished picking my jaw off the floor, I believe I said something like "This bike should get $20K". My Giant TCR Advanced SL1 was $5000 just for the bike without the carbon wheels, bars, etc.. Tricked out, I am sure my Giant would have ran me $10-15K. A full carbon everything bike with DuraAce for $7500? That is unheard of. Add $500 more for a custom paint job - pick a colour: bright yellow? Not a problem.</span>

**The Test Drive: Part 1**

**<span style="font-weight: normal; font-size: small;">I had planned to ride the Vitess bike on the Saturday club ride and the Donut Ride on Sunday. However, I was a complete bonehead and fiddled with the seat height on the way to the club ride on Saturday, and I was unable to get the bolt on the seat post clamp back in after letting it out too far. So, Saturday, I rode the carbon wheels on my Giant. I was impressed. My Giant came with Mavic Ksyrium Elite wheels which are light, but still not as light as the full carbon tubulars from the Vitess bike. I also ride with a heavy 36 spoke Powertap wheel which is like riding a rear wheel with lead fishing weights attached (too much metal in that wheel). I could immediate feel the difference in acceleration with the Equinox wheels: damn wheels are fast. The rolling resistance of the Equinox wheels is extremely low and it is very noticeable especially during the sprinting and climbing parts of the club ride.</span>**

**The Test Drive: Part 2 - Ride the Donut**

**<span style="font-weight: normal; font-size: small;">While the club ride on Saturday was hard and fast, there is nothing more testing to a rider than the Donut Ride here in the bike smoke of Toronto. Started back in the 70's while I was still in diapers, this ride continues today as battle of egos of who can hold on longest. The ride goes north on Keele St., up to the rollers up to 17th side road, and over the Yonge St. to Grandma's Oven - a bakery that has been around forever. The challenge is to keep up on the Keele St. sprint and to make it through the rollers with the pack. I have not been able to hold on that long yet. But, I figured, with the Vitess bike, I would give it a shot. My ultimate goal in the future would be able to go up Jane St with the Masters/Seniors 1 guys and still have enough gas to take the fast route home; but, Sunday I would "limit" myself to getting up the rollers with the pack.</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal; font-size: small;">I rolled out from home around 8:15am as usual and made my way over to Bayview and Sheppard where I meet up with the ride. The weather was around 17C and threatening rain, but I was determined to ride. I had a rain jacket on me just in case. I was early so I rode down Bayview to Lawrence and waited. The one thing that is infinitely apparent about the Vitess is how it tracks: dead straight. I can almost lift my hands from the bar in any situation. I met up with the ride, some 40 riders.&nbsp;This was a small group considering the Donut Ride attracts 100+ riders on a good day. I followed the group as we meandered through the city. 50% of the group were riding their rain bikes - usually a cross bike with road wheels on them. Then came the first test: Bathurst to highway 7 to Langstaff. This is a long turn followed by a 4% grade where everyone sprints. The Vitess held the corner on wet pavement and was a breeze to get up to speed during the sprint. At one point, I managed to get out to the front of the pack. The Vitess bike makes sprinting easy and anyone who doesn't have carbon wheels gets jealous of the sound of the full carbon wheels during a sprint - nothing like getting enough (carbon) fibre in your diet. Langstaff road - time to recover and grab food in prep for the Keele Street sprint. At Keele and Langstaff we met up with the "Italian's from Pinarello" - the fast guys. Today, there was about another 30 guys that joined the group. The pace quickly increased and the ride strung out. The goal here is to grab a wheel, stay out of the wind, and save the energy for the sprint. Testor Rd anticipation seems to precipitate the group. It's the point where the Masters1/Seniors1 types pull off to Jane St and the Keele St sprint begins. This is where most people get dropped. Just then it starts to rain. Not hard, but enough to make the road wet. The sprint was on and on the Vitess bike, I hardly noticed the acceleration. As the pace climbed to max out at 65km/h going downhill (in the rain), I noticed something: I did not have to hang out for dear life like I do with the Giant - even on wet roads. The Vitess bike was quick to accelerate and held the line I chose firmly. I only had to grab the bars lightly to keep the bike in line where I wanted to go. I could concentrate on picking up a wheel or sprinting past a tired rider. I never felt that before during the Keele St. sprint.</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal; font-size: small;">As the pace slowed as we approached King sideroad, the next peak "anticipatory moment" begins. Will I make it with the pack up to 17th? Can I do the rollers? I didn't actually decide to do the rollers until I reached 15th sideroad. The sprint was not as hard as it had been in the past, I felt good and I fuelled up well beforehand. So, I took a chance and charged up the rollers with the pack. When the last roller came upon the group, I was amazed that I was still in the pack and I was amazed to look at the last roller and think it didn't look that hard today. There is something about slamming down the side of a hill with a group at 50km/h and then jumping out of the saddle going as hard as you can up the other side: the hard hill doesn't seem as hard - why? You don't have time to think about. By the time I got to the top of the last roller I was near the back of the pack, and approaching red line, but I was there. The Vitess bike helped - it's light. I didn't have a lead weight to drag up the hill (and I lost some 5lbs in three weeks, so that helped as well). I hung on to the back of the pack all the way to Grandma's Oven. The ride home down Leslie St. was fast and uneventful. Of course, the Donut Ride is always fast - it is never a matter of slow but it is just a matter of how fast.</span>**

**Verdict: I want this bike.**

**<span style="font-weight: normal; font-size: small;">The Vitess bike is light and fast. I think the most redeeming quality of the bike is the handling. It just rides straight allowing the rider to concentrate on riding.&nbsp; The bike looks and handles like something worth $20K, but fully loaded to my liking it's only $7500. You can actually get the same bike for $4K if you go with lesser components. The handling characters make any groupset and configuration with it.</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal; font-size: small;">My thoughts are: I want this bike. I would give up my first born for it if I did not need her to get groceries at the St. Lawrence Market on Saturday, but I will find the funds from somewhere. The ride is just that good.&nbsp; I will keep the Giant for training and use the Vitess for racing. I want this bike. It's that simple. I don't think major manufactures can come close to making something as good.</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal; font-size: small;">Le vélo de Vitess est très rapide. Le vélo de Vitess est très bien.</span>**

**<span style="font-weight: normal; font-size: small;">Check their website at <a title="www.vitess.com" href="http://www.vitess.com" target="_blank">www.vitess.com</a> , even better, go and meet with them. This will be time well spent.</span>**

<span style="font-size: small;"><a title="Photos of the 2010 Vitess" href="http://photos.buckaway.ca/vitess" target="_blank">Click here for photos of the bike</a></span>

&nbsp;

&nbsp;