---title: On Racing and Male Ego...visible: true---Though this year, I spent a lot of time preparing for racing next year. I worked in going long to increase my fitness. I did the Midweek Crit on a regular basis to get the racing skills up. I rode Collingwood several times to get better at climbing long hills. I even rode up Mt. Ventoux in 1:45. To this much, I argue that to be truly good at racing a bike requires one being male. Now, I am not some sexist smuck, so hear me out. If anything, this is a slight against men. Thus, I should clarify. To be truly good at bike racing requires a male ego. There are three incidents this year that lead me to this conclusion.

Near the being of the season I was out on a Saturday ride with the bike club. One of the riders was Allison who we all know is fast. Magically, this time around I managed to find I could keep up with her. Nornmally, I'm getting dropped like a hot potato. We were heading into the Holland Marsh. Now, to get the Marsh is all down hill. Allison jumped off the front and someone screamed, "Mark, you going to let her get away with that?". Well, of course not. So I hammered it as hard as I could and manage to pass her. She tried to pass a few times but I would push harder to keep her behind me. When we got to the bottom of that hill that entered the Marsh, she turned to me said, "Thanks for that, but I am only doing Tempo today". She might as well said "Na, nana, na, na, I'm still faster than you". I look forward to the time when I drop this chick, although one of the other guys on the ride said to me, "Allison, she is a machine and she gets faster by the week". That drove me to get my training plan in order to and increase my fitness level, never mind, finish that 160km ride with the last 60km done by myself.

Then, in France in September, the planned ride was Mont Ventoux at the end of the week. We did many long climbs up smaller mountains in Provence in preparation. One of 10km club the grades hit near 10% on some of the parts. At the time of the climb, I was complaining about how I like to spin at 80rpm on climbs and that with the gearing on my bike I was lucky to spin at 50rpm. Well, at that moment one lady on the ride piped up, "That's what I do". Ouch. Now, to my point, had that incident not happened, I would have probably not done so well climbing Mont Ventoux. Through the entire climb, I had that comment stuck in my mind and, I thought, if someone half of my strength can ride 50rpm up a long grade, than so can I. And I did....1:45 on Mont Ventoux. That comment was the motivator that allowed me to do well on the climb.

More recently, I have been having difficulty finding the will power to get back to weight training. I find it boring, albeit beneficial. While I am supposed to lift weights 2-3 times per week, I had hardly been doing it once per week through the summer and hardly ever doing the fall. So, I was helping one of the women in the club with her bike in my humble abode and she noticed my weight set. She confessed she actually liked doing weights and found it fun. She also confessed that she can squat 165lbs. Hmm. Checking my max weight chart, I saw the last time I tested myself, I could squat 180lbs. So, she can squat more than her body weight and I can barely do my body weight. That's can't happen. Last week, I did a weight session. For the first time in a long time, I managed to whip through it without much grumbling and procastination. In fact I felt good afterwards. Why? Because I have some chick like doing weights and lift more than I. It's just not right. Silly as it sounds, it was the motivator that caused me to get to work, do the weight session, and have some fun doing it.

Thus, while the male ego can be seen as a negative and cause men to do strange things, it can also be the motivator to cause them to work harder. The idea of a woman doing something better than a man is just not something a "real man" can tolerate. Can I let a chick be faster than me? Grind up a hill at a low RPM without complaint? Like lifting weights and lift more than I? NO! So, while it may be painful to come to terms with, it is one thing on my mind when training for bike racing. If some chick can do it, so can I. Stop your whining. Shut up and get to work, dammit.