---title: Killer ride today....visible: true---Got out of bed as normal to get the Saturday group ride. It was a chilly start to the day. Went outside and felt like 5C. Checked the temperature and it was 7C. It still felt cold out, so I dressed for cold. When I got to the bike shop, I was too warm and had to strip off the arm warmers and switch gloves. The group decided to cut the ride short today. I was glad because I just don't have the legs for a longer hard ride. After spending 2.5 weeks in the hospital and 2 months sitting around, I lot most of my gained fitness. Of course, my right leg is still weak and therefore I can't push up the hills like I was used to. Before I crashed, I managed to push out some 1300W on a short sprint. Now, I can barely squeeze out 700W and that has the left leg doing most of the work. Hills are another matter. Once the grade gets up to 6-7%, I can no longer stand. The left leg is forced to get the pedal round.

Today was mostly a flat course, but the group decided to push the speed up a notch. The average speed for the ride was 28km/h, but it seemed to be closer to 35km/h for most of the ride. I managed to keep up until mid-right when the hills because too much. But the pack slowed somewhat and I managed to hang off the back. However, when the ride was near the end, I got dropped. I could not get up the bridge over the 407 at Kennedy and stick with the group, so I gave up and rode home alone.

The ride data is <a href="http://tpks.ws/6w6I" target="_blank">here</a>.

Of course, the day was not a loss. I pickup myself up when I got home and went to the bike shop to get parts for the new used bike. I picked up a Scott CX Team Cyclocross bike from Craigslist and need to get pedals and things for it. I did that. Came home. Installed the parts. Dragged my daughter off the dentist on her bike and we rode 15km together to the dentist, Costco, and then to dinner. At some point in her life, she will pickup cycling. She seems to have the legs for it.

 