---title: Going Hard: Learning to Race the Trackvisible: true---<div>
  If you want to learn to go hard, I think one of the best ways is to take up track cycling. And I mean by hard, REALLY HARD. I happened to be talking to a friend of mine this evening. I think her only issue is being about to max out. I've been trying to convince her that racing the track is the way to go. I think it is an issue a lot of cyclists hard - hitting the max heart rate and still being able to function.<br /><br />I am currently reading Mark Cavendish's book: Boy Racer. One of the things that is quite prominent in the book is that Cavendish started racing the track. From what I can discern, he learned how to go hard on the track. In track cycling, it's just you and the track. The bike has nothing silly like gears and brakes to get in the way. In a sprint, there is no "other gear" to go for - you just have to hope you picked the right gear to start with and can spin fast enough. I can say from experience, racing a bike with a gearing of 80 gear inches (48/17) gives a new level of HARD. I routinely reached new personal bests for heart rate as well as cadence racing on the track.<br /><br />In Ontario, we are lucky that the Forest City Velodrome (FCV) exists. It is one of three indoor tracks in North America - the others being in Los Angeles, CA and in Burnaby, BC. The FCV is special because it's a track crammed into an old hockey rink - so, on the black line, it's 138m. It is a small track. They say that a rider experiences 4-5G's in the corners when going 55-60km/h. It's a fun track to learn to ride and it takes a while to get used to the forces in the corners.<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br />I started at the FCV about 22 months ago. I started there because I hated the thought of spending another winter riding the trainer. I did the Ontario Track Provincials a week ago and had a blast. I didn't place very well, but I didn't care. It was a learning experience because, for the most part, 50% of the events I had never done before.<br /><br />Learning to race the track is a fairly long process - well, it was for me. I've seen guys jump off a road bike and fearlessly race the track, but that is not the norm. The learning to ride that track process gets the rider used to riding all over the track at speed which is important because some 12 or so riders can be racing on the track at the same time.<br /><br />At the FCV, the processes starts with the Saturday Track 1 course. It a a basic course where you learn to ride a fixed gear bike on the track and move to doing simple paceline work. From there, the rider is encouraged to get the track legs by riding on a rec session. In the winter, these occur on Saturdays, Sundays, Tuesdays, etc. The rider is encouraged to come out and get used to riding around on the black line. <br /><br />From there, the rider moves to coming up on a Tuesday night sportif sessions. These help to the riding be able to diamond the track and work on pacelines on the black line and on the blue line. The end result of a set of Tuesday sessions is to be certified as "Track 2" - ready to move up.<br /><br />The next step is the Thursday night training session. Thursday night is far more difficult and takes longer to master. The sessions used to start with a 100 lap role up, and occasionally still do, but have been modified to use shorter roll ups (30 laps) at different speeds depending on ability. The role up starts at a good pace (34km/h) and everyone rides on the blank line in a paceline formation. The pace line continues and the spend increases. The last 5-10 laps are done at full race pace. Race pace meaning everyone is going flat out to the finish line. When I did Thursday nights in winter 2010/2011, it was 100 laps, and the challenge, for me, was just to finish it. Thursday nights were also the nights things like flying laps and skills like riding with one hand on the back of another rider, etc. were done. Thursday nights is where riders learn the value of holding the black line when they "blow"....sometimes the hard way. Thursday nights &nbsp;prepare the rider for Wednesday race training nights.<br /><br />Rob Good runs the Wednesday night sessions. These put the rider through race simulations and drills. Every drill starts with the group riding a paceline - sometimes a single line, and sometimes a double line. A double pace line consists of one group on the black and another on the red - which makes the rider quickly become comfortable with riding in close proximity to other riders. The evening usually starts with warm ups where the rider sprints off the front of the pack and catches the back of the pack. When things get rolling, this drill is sometimes modified to where the pack rides the blue line and the rider does one or two or three laps of the field by dropping to the black. Another hard drill is sprints off the front two at a time. From a dual pace line formation, at each whistle, two riders race each other around the track to catch the back of the pack. These forces each rider to go harder than they are sometimes used to because if they don't give 110% they get dropped (and it's no fun to be a master level rider getting dropped by a 14 year old girl - it doesn't go the ego good - I know from experience). Another interval set is threshold intervals. Usually set on times of 30, 60, 90, etc. for 10 efforts - it gives hard a new meaning. I've done these intervals on the trainer, but its harder when you have to go all out, and pay attention to where you are riding (and in some cases, take care passing other riders). The idea it to get on the track, and at the whistle, go out hard enough so you reach threshold by the end of the interval. Rob has a few other intervals he does we well, but the best way to experience them is to get the race level, and show up.<br /><br />Race night is the ultimate reward for the hard work of training. You put your fitness to the test in races such as the elimination race (miss and out), scratch race, point race, sprints and the Madison. Riders are broken up into A, B, and C categories depending on fitness levels (typically demonstrated on Wednesday night training). Racers are called to the rail and complete the schedule race. I found track somewhat social, but while one is waiting for your turn to race, you are warming up on rollers, and chatting others in the in field.<br /><br />I find track cycling is good for learning because the learning curve is so short. One typically does 3-8 races in an evening. So, one gets to go to the line enough times to begin to figure out how hard one can go, when to attack, where to be in the pack, etc.. It is something that takes a lot longer to do on the road because the races are so infrequent compared to the track. How may road races are their in a season? 8-12? In the 2011/2012 season their were 20 race nights meaning any riding doing all of them raced at least 60 times.<br /><br />Furthermore, what I like about the track is you are racing all winter long. Most people just sit alone on their trainers running intervals. The track means you are riding with others and, in race situations, you are practicing skills you just cannot get on the trainer. You can watch all the race videos you want, you can practice and visualized crossing the line all you want, but it is not the same as going for the line in a bunch sprint on the boards of a velodrome. The track teaches the ride to break boundaries in max heart rate, max sprint power, and max cadence. As I suggested, currently the best sprinter in the world got his start are on the track. What are you waiting for?<br />&nbsp;
</div>