---title: Riding in the Rain as trainingvisible: true---For whatever reason, this year, in Toronto it seems to be raining about 5/days per week. There has only been one sunday and nice day thus far that I can recall commuting home from work when I didn't need a rain jacket or some other garmets to stay warm and/or dry. That said, I gave up hoping for dry weather some time ago and just sucked it up.

This week has been especially wet. Tuesday was Midweek Crit day. Given it was 10C out, I wasn't going to attempt to ride from the office to the crit and then home again. I didn't make it last time I tried that in the rain. From experience, I find I can be comfortable for about an hour before the wet starts to make me cold when it's somewhere around 10-15C out. So, Tuesday, I drove to the office with my bike and drove to the Midweek Crit. It was raining the entire way there. The roads were wet. The course was wet. It was raining at the start of the race and it rained for the entire rain. But, I figure that the last two road races I've done either got rained on or threatened rain, so I figure I should get used to it. There is one new thing I learned - although, since I've done cross, it should come as no surprise: when racing in the rain, your tires should have some thread on them (ie. Conti GP4000's and&nbsp; not Mikey 3's) and the tire pressure should be lower (80-90psi) so the tires grip the road better. That much alone made the trek to the crit worth it. Of course, everyone took it easy at the start so I didn't. I managed to sprint off the front and stay away from the pack for four laps.

Yesterday, it called for rain on the commute to work. So, I pulled out the fixed gear bike (its the one with big fenders on it) and road that to the office in a downpour. I was overdress and sweating on the first hill, but found the outfit to be just ride by the time to got to the office. My 40min commute last just long enough - much longer and I would have started to get cold.

The point: get out in the rain. Everyone needs to know how to ride in it. If you race, you need to get out to know how to race in it. At the crit, we were doing hard corners at 40km/h - good practice for rain day.

Rain. Ride. Just do it.