---title: Morning Glory Ride...er...Racevisible: true---I heard about the Morning Glory Ride some time ago. It's a ride that starts before the sun comes up and runs through some of the central Toronto streets. About two weeks ago, I joined the mailing list for the ride. To me, it was a matter of options. Getting up before dawn to go train on one's own is hard. So, the possibility to go ride in the early AM before work was something I wanted to be able to do if I so chose. Riding with others makes it easier to get out of bed. I will admit that the person that told me about the ride some time ago gave me the impression that this ride was an easy ride with some hill repeats tied into it. That notion was quickly dispelled about one minute into the ride.

<hr id="system-readmore" />
Because planned activity for the previous night didn't work out, I found myself with an evening to spare, no workout accomplished, and left wondering what to do for Thursday. So, I decided to check out the Morning Glory ride Thursday morning. The ride starts at 5:40AM. So, I prepared my kit and my bike for the ride. I strapped on my cameras to the bike because I wanted to record it. I set my alarm for 4AM and intended on leaving at 5AM. The meeting place is at Bayview and Moore which is south of Eglinton. I knew from the donut ride, which I start at Bayview and Eglinton, that it would be about a 30 min ride down the Morning Glory ride start. 

I ended up leaving about 4:50AM and managed to get the Loblaws at the ride start about 5:20AM. 30mins for the ride down was bang on. I could have picked up the ride anywhere, but since I didn't know the route, I decided to go with the group from the start. I tend to do that for any new ride. I met a few of the guys in the Loblaws parking lot...and we chatted about the cameras, etc.. I met Fraser, the ride leader.

The ride started at 5:40AM sharp. Today's ride was the Bridal Path loop. Fraser took off down Moore, I followed, and the rest of the group came up from behind. I soon discovered being second from the front was a bad idea. I ended up pulling about three times as we headed up Victoria Park Rd and Lawrence. Speeds hit, I would guess, 40km/h or more on the flats because I ran out of gears (usually a good indication we are doing race pace). This was harder than the Donut Ride because these guys do not let up. Of course, I was at a disadvantage because I had never riden fast in the dark and I didn't know the route. I had to guess where the turns were wish caused me some delays due to my hesitation.&nbsp;

We screamed across Lawrence, hit the Bridal Path, and raced down the hill that leads into the York U. campus. It's pitch black going down the hill and one really has to trust the bike is going to go where it is supposed to. At the bottom, we turned around and fired back up the hill. This hill seems to hit 12% or better near the top. I managed to keep up with the race pace on this first ascent, but quickly started to fall behind when the leaders hit the streets to do the 5km loop. Again, not knowing the route, I hesitated which lead to gaps between the wheels in front of me. I did managed to keep up for the first loop. Again, we dropped down that hill, and then the cracks started to show in my pace. I should have never lead out the pack from the ride start, because when we hit that 12% section on that second ascent, I couldn't hold on. Stuck in first gear, it was all I could do to grind up the hill. I could have used my 11-28 cassette.

The second loop around, I ended up following one other guy that got dropped from the leaders. The remaining loops I was on my own. It was a bit of a guessing game to find the streets to ride loop around, but I did it. At the end of the last loop, I was surprised to find the group waiting....although, I gather, ride etiquette&nbsp;would seem to indicate one cuts the last loop short such that no one is waiting at the end of the ride because the entire group was waiting for ME.

With the ride over, we rode through the York U. campus which had a nice climb with a few "switch backs" up to Lawrence. I parted ways with the group and slowly spun home up Bayview.

What did I think of the ride? Fast. Very fast. I wish I started doing this ride back in April. I have been wanting to find a group of people faster than me to push me to go harder. Most rides start at a leasurely pace and go faster, but always ease up. This ride goes fast. It's like a road race. It never lets up. I need that. I need to be pushed to go hard. I want to race. This ride is good race training. This is a ride I need to do weekly and forget about training after work.

The Morning Glory Ride is a race pace ride. Something I will definitely add to my training plan.