---title: Road Cross in Durham Forestvisible: true---Haven picked up a Cross bike (Scott CX Team) some weeks ago as a second bike to use as a beater around town, I have yet to take it out for a real spin in the dirt. When a club member posted on that they will holding a ride in the Durham Forest, I jumped at the chance. What could be more fun than getting the bike dirty? My intent a few weeks ago was to ride Durham Forest anyways, but things didn't work out.

Today's ride started at the parking lot. I met up with some club members that were obviously well attuned to mountain biking. I did find it amusing as we rolled through the parking lot, I overhead someone saying, "The pros are going out for a ride" - and they seemed to indicate we were the pros. Most of us were sporting spandex biking shorts and club logos, so I guess it is not hard to assume we know what we are doing.

We rolled through the trails. It was not long because the mountain bikers took off on the single track trails and up a hill I had no hope of climbing on the cross bike. One of the guys who was just getting back on the MTB (MounTain Bike) suggest he and I go off on our own. We stuck to more open flatter trails. I managed to get up a good speed on a few descents. For the most part, my skill is poor. Riding over bumps, roots, and stones at high speed is disconcerting. To be any fun, off-roading requires at least front suspension on the bike. The hardest part was the ride back to the parking lot. The dirty road we road on was about a 6% grade running for some 5km. Having just ridden for 2 hours without eating anything, that was a hard climb.

It was good experience and a great workout. I did more work on that 25km ride today than I would have done riding 75km on the road (at least it feels that way). I might return to practice on these trails in the future on my own. If I ride with these guys again, I need a MTB in order to keep up with them.

Thus, the search for a good course to practice Cross continues. I have been told the Don Valley offers trains good for cross riding.

 