---title: First time Nordic Skiingvisible: true---Three weeks ago I was told in Physio I needed to start jogging/running. This week I ran on the trendmill for 15 mins to which I "it was indicated" that wasn't good enough. The sidewalks in our area are snow covered, and running on the treadmill is limited in the amount of fun. Also, given that the cold snap seems to have removed the idea of cycling outdoors and skiing is closer to running than, well, cycling, I decided to give skiing a try. Buddy Ron has been asking me to go skiing for more than a year and has indicated he had used skis to sell. So, I contacted Buddy Ron and I bought those skis this week.

In the process I had be consulting with "Don't Stop" Jim on the notion of skiing. I blame him partly for the idea because he put the thought out there to the biking club some months ago. Anyways, I made the suggestion that we go skiing this Saturday, and a trip to Dagmar he already had planned. Join him we planned.

You must understand, the last time I had anything to do with skis is when I was a teenager and the parents bought skis for us to use. We did use them on many occations. Back then, as I recall, I was quite good at it. There was not a learning curve. I jumped on the skis and away we went. I should have know things would have been different this time when "Don't Stop" Jim asked if the new used skis were classic or skate skis cross country skis. There are different types of skis? A quick google search of what that meant showed that I had purchased Classic Cross country skis. No worries, did them as a kid. It should be easy. Ahem.

 

<hr id="system-readmore" />
After Jim and I got to Dagmar, got suited up in our cold weather bike/skiing gear, we strapped on our skis. I think I made it 3m before I hit the ground. Jim said something along the lines of "Oh, I forgot to mention, first time out, expect to fall a lot". Apparently, it's part of the learning curve. The worst part of course, I looked like a Pro with gear and shades I had on, but the feet just could not do what I wanted them to. Jim and friend took off for some quick rounds of the trails whilst I struggled on. Luckily, being we got to Dagmar at 9am, no one was out on the trails, so I was alone to make a fool of myself and I took the opportunity to do so. I fell on the flats. I fell on the downhills (mostly as a way to stop), and I feel on the uphills. By the time I saw Jim again about 30 mins later, I got the hang of falling over - and getting up again. Of course, Jim decided we should try one of the harder trails. Apparently, I was quite capable of doing it. Ok. I looked good, why not? There &nbsp;is nothing like seeing a hill and wondering of the poll in the bend at the bottom of the hill has my name on it. &nbsp;Falling over, I found, was a way of stopping - although, I gather, not the correct way. On one of the hills I demonstrated my falling technique to a group of ladies. They were quite impressed and smile profusely as I skiied by after recovering from the fall. 

 

Certainly, one of has to have humility to learn a new sport. Last year, it was biking. I got good at that (or maybe not - I did land in the hospital for two weeks). Jim's final comment of the day was no bones were broken. I wonder what he meant by that.

My only regret was I took no pictures, even through I brought a camera (or maybe lack of evidence was a good idea). I will certainly go skiing again. It's like skipping rope which I learned to do about 4 weeks ago. It takes time to learn and requires practice. Skiing, like running, helps with the broken leg recovery because it requires a great deal of coordination.

 