---title: France trip: Ventoux climbvisible: true---It's been a week now since my return from two weeks in France cycling various mountains in the Pre-Alps in the Provance region of France. I find myself having to get used to the short "climbs" here in the Toronto area, which compared to France, is flat. I can recall one ride where we started out from our hotel and 2 kms out of the town we were in, St Jean en Royans, and we are climbing. We kept climbing for some 1000m up or about 10km road distance. After some 2 hours of climbing and stopping for a coffee break, we descended back into the town through some scarey roads. Magically,&nbsp; cycling on roads carved into the side of a mountain is dangerous. The walls on the side of the road are just the right height that is one missed with the bike, one would be thrown off the bike and over the edge. Needless to say, I took my time on those descents. Falling 500m down into the gorge below was not something I wanted to experience.

Of course, the highlight of the trip was the ride up Mt. Ventoux. For the most part, it was a mental challenge because the actual ride was easier than I expected. Once I got to the half-way point, the rest was, um, up hill from there. Like a TT, a long climb is about sitting in and pushing at a rate that sets one heart rate at a comfortably high level....and from there, spin. When I got somewhat winded, I eased up a bit. When I felt good, I put the hammer down. The most fun was getting blown up the mountain above the tree line. Mt. Ventoux comes in three sections: the town, the trees, and the moonscape. Above the tree line is the moonscape for which Mt. Ventoux is known. This section was the easiest to get up because the wind was largely behind us. At one point, I was doing 25km/h after spending much time around the 13km/h mark. I will admit that the hardest part of this climb up to 1912m was the last turn up to the weather station. At that point, the wind must have topped out at 100km/h. I was nearly blown off my bike. The wind was strong enough I couldn't walk back down to the cafe the same way I came up. It was an experience. Because of the wind, I elected to descent the mountain from Chalet Renard - just above the treeline. It was an uneventful descent, but I keep my speed to 65km/h tops because I wanted to make it home. the tree section varies from 7%-13% grade. Once I got to the town section, I let go of the brakes. At 5% or so, the max speed was limited to about 55km/h by wind restistance.

The climb: 1hr 45mins

The descent: 20mins

The video of the descent:

{source}<iframe src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/15948034?byline=0&portrait=0" width="400" height="225" frameborder="0"></iframe>{/source}