---title: Season is over?visible: true---<div>
  It is the end of August. Only a short few weeks ago, it was light out at 5:30am and dark out until 9PM here in Toronto, ON. This morning, at 6:40AM, I rode with my lights on my bike because it was not quite light out. It is completely dark now at 8:15PM. The last Midweek Time Trial was last week. The last RealDeal Time Trial was last night. The Midweek Crit has one more night left, and that is it for that. I have raced my last race of the season at the Niagara Classic - well, except for the Centurion Gran Fondo, but that is more of a ride than a race to me. Road Cycling season is coming to a close for the most part. For me, it is time to take stock in what I have accomplished (which is not much), and what to do next.<br /><br />This year my general goal was to get out to road races and race. I wanted to get used to going to races, racing them, being with the pack, and finishing. Because of my crash in the Tour of Bronte, I promised myself to always ride the course prior to the event which I did for all races. I believe understanding the course route and elevations was an advantage and it worked. I also learned that the Tour of Bronte is a Cross race. While many guys do it on road bikes, the gravel is deep enough to be hazzardous, and a cross bike would mean, even on the paved sections, one need not stick to the road.<br /><br />I also had a goal to ride to Niagara Falls and I have done that three times this year. The second time, completely on my own, without a support vehicle, I managed 210km from my door to the door of my parents place in the Falls in 6:32min moving time for an average speed of 32km/h. I now know can go really long on my own and, well, survive. This adventure also opens doors to other cycling routes, because I managed to discover some good roads in the Niagara Penisula including some tough climbs and some good long TT riding routes. I also discovered I can ride to Niagara on a 150km route that could take me about 4-5 hours. I mapped out a ride from the Falls to Effingham hill and back. All this means I can visit my parents more often without missing a training day.<br /><br />I did a France trip this year to Limoux in the south of France, and found an area I think I will be visiting more often. For this year, the highlight of the trip was seeing the start of the Tour de France which passed through Limoux. We stayed in a house and were able to prepare our own food, so the cost of the trip was cheap. The roads in the area range from flat to mountainous. The mountains are also within riding distance, and I did a 160km ride through lots of small town, up and down two Cols, and back to the house again. Riding 50kms to the climb of a mountain taught me to be prepared because I forgot that it takes food to fuel the body, and was out of steam at the stop of the first climb. I also discovered short route where I could climb a hill for 800m that averaged 14% and topped out at 18-20%. The Concrete Wall is what they called it.<br /><br />
</div>