---title: St. Lawrence Market experiencevisible: true---While I have been looking for ways to eat better over the last year but choosing more carefully what I eat, including eating far more vegies than ever, I had never thought about where the food comes from until recently. I dislike hamburgers because of the low quality of the meet in them, but finding out that there is "shit in the meet" of more frozen burgers is disheartening. Shit in the meat is why burgers need to be cooked well done. This has lead me to try out something new: looking for locally grown produce and meat. Unfortunately, this can be a difficult thing to do in the fall/winter.

While I grew up eating fruit and produce our family usually bought or picked off the farm ourselves, I got away from that with the advent of moving to the big city and running into the rat race of city life. My quest to lose weight through cycling lead to wanting to eat better to improve my cycling performance. This lead me, today, to venture down to St. Lawrence Market. This is a large market that has been there for two centuries and is located in the heart of downtown Toronto.

The market opens at 5AM on Saturdays, so I planned to get up early to check it out. I arrived about 8:30am to find it busselling. I wandered around the market looking for a variety of items. I picked up vegies, meat, bread, etc. In all I make some 5-6 trips to the car with handfuls of bags. I quickly discovered I forgot two important items: reusuable bags and a shopping cart. Most vendors offer plastic bags, but seem to frown on handing them out. The prices were as much as twice the supermarket price, but there were a lot more variety. The interesting part is while most of the items are grown or packed locally, one has about as much luck finding "grass fed beaf/chicken/pork" and locally grown organic vegies as in the supermarket. In fact, some vendors seem to be offering vegies from the US, Mexico, and beyond. I bought bananas at one vendor - but obviously, there were not Ontario grown (I bought them to save a trip to the supermarket). The north market is the place where the local farmers bring their wares to sell. I purchased most of my vegies there. I bought some "Natural Yogurt" that I later discovered contained chemical emulsifiers. The same vendor offered creme that contained only creme (something the supermarket does not sell). I found it odd that one product was chemical free and the other was not. I discovered honey and maple syrup sold in 4L jugs...and unfortunately, I bought honey from Costco a few days before. When we run out of maple syrup, I will get our new bottle at the market. I suspect the Costco stuff is watered down. The meat vendor I choose claimed to be using locally grown beef, but their website reads like a vendor more interested in money than quality. So, who knows. However, their pealmeal bacon was great. Yum. I made lunch with it and some of the eggs I bought.

The bottom line is I will return to the St. Lawrence Market. I will never go there after 10AM. The line up to the parking lots was around the building when I left. I will however be a bit more picky at what I purchase. I will also continue my quest to find a meat vendor that produces 100% grass feed cattle.

As usual, it is buyer beware.

 

 