---title: Learning to ride...the hard wayvisible: true---My friend Ed doesn't ride. He doesn't know the first thing about riding a road bike. My idea of riding used to be a mountain bike riden on the road. For some reason, I thought fat tires were better for riding. I learned that is not the case. So, when Ed decided he wanted a "new" bike this year, I suggested a road bike. Ed said he had a firm upper limit of $600 for a bike. He could just bought a bike in Canadian Tire - well that was his idea. <cough> < gag>. Crappy Tire? NEVER. So, I found a used Specialized Allez Triple on Craigslist in his size, and prepared the bike for him to ride it. I outfitted it with the low end Speedplay pedals and a cheap bike computer. This was back in February, so I also encouraged him to buy a trainer and ride indoors, which he did. Apparently, he worked his way to riding up to 45 mins in the trainer before "dying" which is not bad, because I was in that area&nbsp; of skill about two years ago. I know how hard it can be to get started. However, when the warm weather came, Ed still rode indoors. Something about trucks and evil motorists. He never road much outdoors. We did a 90min spin outside around my area here in Toronto, at one point, but Ed never rode in a pack or did a group ride before.

So, last weekend, Ed came down to stay with us for the weekend. I told him to bring his bike. Sunday, I was in for a recovery ride, so I was looking to go slow. Sunday came and my other riding partner cancelled out, so it would be just Ed and I. What to do? I didn't feel like riding all the way over to Durham Line to ride for a hour or two. We'd spend too much time in the city. So, what? The Donut Ride, of course! Being that I live spitting distance from the start of the Donut Ride, I decided to drag Ed out for his first group riding experience. What better plan to learn than on the hardest ride in Toronto. It's do or die...and I expected him to die before the first sprint.

Here is the video result:

{youtube}SYDombQqASA{/youtube}

Magically, Ed manage to make it to Bathurst and HWY7. I didn't expect him to. The group rides 25-30km/h until this first sprint point at Bathurst/HWY7, and it's hard for a beginner to keep that pace. Riding in the pack can also be a challenge if one has never done it before as well especially since the Donut Ride really has no group riding rules other than follow your line. However, Ed managed to stay with the pack and not crash into anyone (well, he crashed into me before the ride started, but that is another matter - he scratched my brand new bike). At Langstaff and HWY7, Ed had to pull off the road. He was done. Exhausted. The pack was long gone at this point and we moved slowly from that point on. Once we found a coffee shop and he had a chance to rest, we managed to get some good speed on the way home. So, it was all good.

Ed did email me after the weekend and suggested he would be riding more.&nbsp; He did learn to stand on the pedals on the ride (had no choice) and to attack hills. So, I gather the experience of doing the Donut Ride gave him the encouragement to get out and ride. Ed lives in Creemore, ON, so there are some serious hills he can work on. Give him a year and he'll be able to hold his own with the pack up to Keele or farther.

 

 