---title: Focus: Sticking to goalsvisible: true---Over the last week, I've done quite a bit of "head scratching" as I think about the end of track season and the start of road season, and where I want to be going with this "cycling thing". To recap slightly, I got started some eight years ago as a way to lose weight. It seems to be a common thread amoungst us "age groupers" - what people under 18 call "old people". I fell into racing bikes because it was new and was fun. The shine has come off the racing "thing" as I burnt out last season and never really got the itch to get back into it. Yea, I have done some track racing this winter. I've done some training. Nothing really focused. I got into coaching with by taking the Cycling NCCP coaching coarses, running sessions at the Forest City Velodrome (FCV), discovered what organizing races is about by running races at the FCV and getting sessions running at the Milton Velodrome, and most recently getting involved in Rob Good's KW Youth Cycling Center. Add to that I _finally_ finished the requirements for being a Ontario Track Commissaire in December. I've done alot this winter that has little to do with getting fit. This has lead to a lot of head scratch as to what I _should_ be working towards. I've lacked focus.

Lacking is focus is fine; except it makes it hard to be good at any one thing. As the adage goes, "Jack of all trades, master of none". To be truely good at something, one has to focus on it. For a long time, the focus has been bike racing and training. I have added a lot of "stuff" recently that has taken a lot of mental energy I used to use for training....and I've suffered for it. I've shown up to races over the winter, and my mind just hasn't been there. It's taken a few races to be ON. When I'm ON, I'm ON....but because the training hasn't been there, I find me 3-5min power numbers won't allow me to be "Mark Breakaway". I won't mention that with the new Milton Velodrome, I'm no longer the "only one" doing track racing. Everyone is - and getting better at it. I used to be the only that seemed to know the best way for a endurance "guy" to win a miss and out is to get on the front and stay there - now everyone is trying to do that.

As I think of where I _should_ be going with this "bike racing thing", I'm thinking I need to find a goal and focus on it. When I organize track time or events such as the Florida training camp, generally speaking, I do it because it has a direct benefit to me: I get to ride my bike with a like minded set of people. The Tornado Tuesdays and Team Pursuit sessions we race with Rob Good and Art Adams are good examples of that. When I orginally took the commissaire course some years ago, I did so because it was a requirement to be an cycling event organizer....and some how fell into officiating bike races. I was signed up to help officiate Track Provincials, and thought, na, this isn't part of my goals, and got out of it.

This winter, I also dambled in testing our my training studio concept. One of the issues of staying motivated is to train with like minded people. I was told quite bluntly that people are not interested to come to my basement to train in a group, and I don't blame them. Everyone has their own dungeon to train in, why is mine any better? So, I've tried to run sessions at the KW Youth Cycling center with some limited success. I've learned a lot of how to make this happen. A certain degree of regularity is required as well as alot of help: one cannot do it oneself. Getting involved in the youth sessions at the center sparked another idea. It's fun to see a group of 8-12 yo's hit the pedals harder than most adults. The enthusiam of the youth is amazing. While I have a desire to setup a training studio in and around Milton, I think it will have a youth cycling component. If I could only find a way to convince the adults to help fund youth cycling. Would it be possible to get a regular group of 10-20 youth to ride in Milton, train at the two Velodromes in Ontario, and help build a youth cycling team, perhaps fostering the growth of Kallisto-FCV team all the while help build a dedicated group of "age groupers" willing to train together and help support the youth initiative. Maybe work on getting a medal in Team Pursuit at Track Natonals in October. I've never done Team Pursuit in competition before.

So, going forward, I've resolved to try and be a bit more focused in my efforts. First and foremost, I want to ride my bike and I want to stay fit. Anything that does not directly affect that goal has no place in my training plan. I want to do alot more, what I call, stupid endurance rides this year. Riding to Niagara Falls, just because. Riding the Hair Shirt ride in June, just because. Keep to the crit racing as a way of doing intensity on the bike. Work towards building sprint power in the gym. Figuring out how to get a training camp together this summer for track nationals in October bringing together some of the top coaching talent in Ontario to raise the bar of Ontario "age groupers". Start a training studio in the fall, ideally, bringing together the knownledge of the top coaches to train, on a regular basis, like minded individuals and develop a youth program to foster the next Olympic hopeful all the way building a group of people to ride bikes with.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;