---title: Riding the rainvisible: true---(at some point I'll go back and proofread what I write, but usually it's a matter of writing something or not if I do that - so, pardon the bad english. It's only my first language)

Riding in the rain is something more "cyclists" prefer not to do. In fact, just last year, I was one of them. A ride would be cancelled because of rain, and that was that. However, when I started commuting into the downtown core of Toronto, I noticed that there are lots of cyclists - bike riders - that do not care what the weather is like. There are guys in suits and ties riding fixed gear bikes in the snow and rain. Obviously, these types live and work in the downtown core, but that made me wonder why I can not ride in the rain.

Thus, some weeks ago I walked down to MEC (Mountain Equipment Coops) and dropped a wad of cash on "commuting" rain gear. I bought a waterproof rain jacket (no logos) that covered most of my behind and I found waterproof gloves in the rowing section. I will return at some point and pickup waterproof booties so my feet stay dry.

The weather this morning was to be warm and clear. I woke up to find rainy at 6C. Ugly. I didn't care. I intended to ride today and it hasn't been the first time I rode in the rain. In fact, we raced Springbank in the rain on Sunday. So I put on my warmer gear because when things get wet it feels colder, packed my backpack with things placed in plastic bags, grabbed my waterproof raingjacket and gloves, pulled out the Giant road bike, and hit the road. The biggest shock is stepping outside and the first 5-10mins of the ride when you are thinking to yourself, "I could be on a nice warm dry GO Train". However, I found the wind at my back, the speeds picking up fast enough to challenge the cars on the road, and, within two major blocks I was warmed up and hammering it hard and loving it. It sprinkled rain. My back side was forming a tiger strip, but I didn't care. It become a fun ride.

Thus, the fair weather riders are all complaining about the weather. Well, I would rather the weather be 20C and sunny, but given the choice of riding or not, I am riding.