---title: Never Under Estimate the Donut Ridevisible: true---With the indoor cycling season coming to an end, I have taken to riding outside. It's still cold with temps in Toronto still hovering around 0C (32F) in the early morning. But, properly dressed, it doesn't really matter. One doesn't notice the temperature. Last week, I road the Donut Ride expecting to get dropped. The ride was a little disappointing because the group didn't really go hard. The Donut Ride &nbsp;is notorious for testing the rider's endurance on the sprints. However, I spent most of the time with my heart rate in Zone 1 and rarely got up to Zone 3. So, it was a slow ride by Donut Ride standards. Last week, I only road to 15th sideroad. However, the last time I road the Donut Ride I got dropped. So, it was good that I was able to keep up on the sprints.

With that in mind, I road the Donut Ride again today and I foolishly expected it to be an easy ride. It turned out to be anything but an easy ride. The ride started by meeting up with Don't Stop Jim at Birchmount and Huntingwood. I was running a bit behind because I decided it was cold out and wanted to dress for the weather (and not freeze like I did last week). We road over to Bayview and Sheppard. Because we were early, we road south down Bayview to catch the Donut Ride as they headed north. I never thought of this before, but will do this extra bit in the future to save sitting around waiting for the ride to show up. The ride was going at leisurely pace as it does at this point. Through the subdivisions did we travel working our way up to Bathurst and HWY7. This is usually were the fun begins. The group rides down the ramp from Bathurst onto HWY7, and then hammers it until Langstaff. I managed to get out to the front of the group and keep hold of a wheel when I noticed my heart rate blasted up to Zone 4. Woohoo. It felt good to get the heart rate up. It also felt good to be able to keep up with the fast guys. The road leading up to Keele St. is usually done at a somber pace, but today it was a bit more modest. Someone mentioned that the first race of the season was next week and surmized that the pace would pickup to the extreme. Given the slow ride of the following week, I was glad that that might happen. It did. While the ride up Keele St. wasn't slow, it was fast either until Testor Rd. The UberFast Jane St. Guys decided not to go to Jane St. at Testor Rd. and stayed with the pack. The should have been an indication that the pace was going to get real fast quick. It did. At the Testor Rd sprint, the pace increased to some to an average of 44km/hr and top speed was 66km/h. I was pushing 709W at one point. That pace should have been an indication that I might not make it through the rollers, but because the pace had dropped&nbsp;at King Rd.; I decided to solder on to 17th instead of turning off at 15th sideroad. I was hurting at this point and forgot to grab a banana from my back pocket. When I hit the first hill on the rollers, I blew a gasket, max'd out my heart rate and could not get any power to my legs. I quickly got dropped to the point where I was the last guy from the group. I was not the only one. One other guy also ran out of gas, but I still had a hard time keeping up with him. In hidesight, I should have gobbled down a gel or two when the pace slowed or turned off at 15th. The pace was high on the sprint, which I managed to stay with, but it took a lot out of me to stay with the pack. In the future, until I can develop the force to do the rollers, I'll base the route on the pace of the group. High pace, turn at 15th. Slow pace, go for it and try the rollers. &nbsp;I expect my training starting in April will improve my fitness and I will be able to keep up. Of course, while I was riding by myself back to Grandma's Oven, I figured I would be riding alone on the way home. However, as I arrived, the group was just filling out. Don't Stop Jim quipped that there was no stopping on this ride. While I wanted to change my baselayer, I thought riding with the group would be a better idea. I ate a banana, and jumped onto the back of the group. I discovered Camera Guy Jay got dropped during the Testor Rd Sprint, which made be a bit happy because I managed to keep up. Of course, he got to get a pasty and I didn't.

The ride home was uneventful. The pace was noticeably slower - no doubt because of the high pace of the ride up. I felt the ride. In fact, it felt like the ride I would have done at the Factory, except the factory is a bit more focused workout. However, it was a good ride. I burned some calories and got to practice finding my position in the pack.

The ride data is <a title="Donut Ride Data" href="http://tpks.ws/ejuW" target="_blank">here</a>.

&nbsp;

&nbsp;