---title: ARE YOU FOLLOWING THESE THREE PHASES OF TRAININGvisible: true---<div>
  The following article was sent to me via email by Peter Hien of SportsZone Photography. If you know the original author, please email me so I can appropriate attribute the work. The topic has relevance for me because I've been in the training to train phase for too long, and I am working up to training to win phase.<br />--<br /><br />Most athletes (regardless of their age) jump into intense workouts far too early in their competitive season, often leading to injuries and reduced performance outcomes. Top international coaching experts have agreed that there should be three distinct phases of training in any athlete's season (regardless of age). Our observation at Personal Best, is that far too many athletes, coaches and teams skip one or more of these three phases and cause short and long-term athletic performance impairments. The three phases of training are:<br />
  
  <hr id="system-readmore" />
  
  <br /><br />TRAINING TO TRAIN<br />TRAINING TO COMPETE<br />TRAINING TO WIN<br /><br />Many coaches, teams and individuals completely skip phase 1 (Training to Train), spend far too little time in phase 2 (TRAINING TO COMPETE) and focus most of their energy and time in phase 3 (TRAINING TO WIN). It's important to understand why lack of optimal performance and a greater propensity for injury are closely tied to those who don't properly follow these three distinct phases.<br /><br />The focus of the TRAINING TO TRAIN phase is to properly prepare athletes and teams to actually play the sport/activity without risk or injury. The person/teams are spending their time, breaking in their muscles and readying their bodies to actually start into the sport. In essence, this is a person's pre-season or break-in phase. Muscles and tendons are being strengthened, endurance is being improved and individuals are likely spending lots of time doing technical work. The more novice the person / team is, the longer they should spend in the TRAINING TO TRAIN PHASE. This doesn't mean the person won't ever do a competition or play a game, it simply means their focus for that year will be less on WINNING and more on properly preparing their bodies for future sporting events.<br /><br />The focus of the TRAINING TO COMPETE phase is to ensure the person or team is now ready to actually properly play the games or finish the race. The proper workouts create the right fitness, skills and knowledge to actually participate safely in the sport event. While participants will be in competitions (and may win games and set new personal best times) the focus of this phase of training is to properly learn the right skills, gain the right knowledge and obtain the appropriate fitness so that down the road they can be ready to win competitions on a regular basis. Far too many people speed through the TRAINING TO COMPETE PHASE and don't properly gain the benefits they will need to consistently win in the future. Some people/teams will not get past the TRAINING TO COMPETE PHASE in a season (or for several seasons) as they are not yet ready for the final TRAINING TO WIN PHASE.<br /><br />The third and final phase, should only be incorporated into a person's season once they have built up enough skills and fitness to be able to properly and consistently focus on WINNING (excelling). When a person or team has rushed by the first two phases, their chances of long-term success in sport are dramatically impaired. In future PB Newsletters, we will go into greater detail about each of these distinct phases. Parents, coaches and individuals should ask themselves if their training program seems to consistently incorporate all three phases.<span id="_plain_text_marker">&nbsp;</span>
</div>