---title: Donut Ridevisible: true---I did the <a href="http://www.donutride-toronto.ca" target="_blank" title="Donut Ride Toronto">Donut Ride</a> today. The Donut Ride started around 1974 and continues to this day. It starts at Laird and Eglington, wanders up Bayview, makes it way over to Bathurst above Steeles and ends up on Keele Street where it heads north out of the city. After tackling the rollers on the top of Keele, it wants back to Yonge Street for a stop a Grandma's Oven to some tasty treats. This leg of the ride is the hard one because depending on who is leading the pack, the pace can approach race pace. The pack break up after grandma's oven, and returns into Toronto by many different routes. Some go down Leslie and some go down Kennedy. Regardless, these roads are mostly downhills and on most days the wind is on your back, so the pace continues to be fast...although, the amount of energy required to keep the pace is less.

Today, I road the Donut Ride for the first time.

 

<hr id="system-readmore" />

 

Jim is a D'Ornellas club rider that invited me to follow him on the Donut Ride three weeks ago, but I declined suggesting I have broken leg and I feared falling off the bike. He leads most of the rides for the club. Riding with Jim is like being on the bridge of the original star ship Enterprise. Jim is in the captains seat. Scotty in the engine room is reporting, "I'm giving you all I've got, Captain" as the ride gets faster. Bones is barking back at him "Dammit Jim, if you keep this pace, we will have to stop". Jim does not stop on his rides. If he does stop, you have 30 secs to eat, pee, drink, whatever, otherwise, you are left in port to find your own way back to the ship. So, when I emailed him this week that I was healed over, no more broken leg, and I wanted to try the Donut Ride, I knew what I was in for; nevermind, the Donut Ride has a reputation a hard fast ride itself.

I know from riding with the group a few weeks back, I can keep up on the flats and sprint with the best of them going downhill, but when the grade rising to 7%+, I quickly fall off the back because I cannot, with my bum right leg, get enough force to turn the cranks round in anything other than the granny gear. That  is what happened on the Donut Ride. I met Jim at his parents place and we road over to Bayview and Sheppard to pickup the pelleton. The pace of todays ride was quite leisurely apparently. There was at least 100 riders. I managed to stay behind the first few riders at the front and I did that for most of the ride over to Keele Ste. Lanstaff Rd seems to be a sprint point and everyone jumped on the peddles as the pace picked up. I managed to keep up with the pack for the most part. But, unlike a club ride where rules say that you must maintain formation, none of those rules applied here. If the rider in front of you is too slow, then just like in a race, you go around them. Similarly, if you are too slow, expect to fall to the back of the pack, quickly. Like a road race, the only rule that seems to apply is the Yellow Line rule.

Keele St was another matter. While Jim notes that today's speed was not the fastest he has seen, it hit 60km/h in spots and my heart rate stayed in the top of zone 3 to the bottom of zone 5 for most of the ride up Keele. The last time that happened, I did the Midweek Club's Tuesday night crit. 45 mins of hell and I revisited that on the ride today. It felt good. It was not until I got to the rollers after 15th line did I fall off the back of the pack and never saw them again. Because I just can not get the force out of the legs, when I do this ride again, I will divert off at 15th like some riders do. Unless I can climb hills again with a group and keep up, it's not worth it.

Jim was kind enough to wait for me at Keele and 17th. I knew some of these road because my friend Ron and I road them extensively last fall. I still need to learn to eat/drink more regularly on the bike. I was dead after those hills. We tracked over to Grandma's Oven. I downed some food/drink. Jim stopped for 30 seconds and we were off again. The ride back was hard although we alternated drafting. Riding with a partner is better in this sense because when one needs a rest, draft behind the other person gives that needed break where one does not get this riding alone. We slowed up as we entered the city.

So, I did the donut ride today. It was fun. Come spring, methinks I will mix this ride into with my workout regiment because it not only helps with aerobic endurance, it helps with race skills because of the size of the pack and the only rule seems to be the same as a race: stay to the right of the yellow line. I look forward to riding at the front and forcing the pace higher.

 