---title: Finding the Racing Bugvisible: true---This year hasn't seen much success on the racing front, partly because, I felt didn't feel like racing. Last season, something happen physically that make my endurance vanish and riding more than 90 mins hard. Over the summer, the fitness didn't really return and come the fall into track season, I seemed to lose interest in race. Who that was once Mark "Breakaway", did not exist. Mentally, I almost had enough. Even taking 4 months off in the fall of 2015 to take a university course didn't help much. Racing wasn't exciting anymore.

This season has been hard. I've loved the training - doing the workouts, and the intervals indoors was actually fun. Testing my limits on the trainer. Track racing wasn't much interesting. I sat out some of the track races and decided only to race one race in the track provincials. The fact is, I didn't miss it at all. I could have cared less. I think the most fun I had during the track seasion over the winter was helping the Kallisto-FCV team as a volunteer. It was fun to help others succeed. I just could not motivate myself to race.

I resolved to just ride. I joined the Milton Bike Club and did I have some of their rides. I decided ride to and from the office once or twice per week. 55km each way into Toronto meant for a good day of riding. &nbsp;During out Florida trip, I had some fun on the Windemere ride. I did find the one race did in Florida fun - the Lake Loiuse Circuit race. I left the 45min race thinking that wasn't that hard and maybe I would be good at road racing as well as crits. Just maybe. However, the anxiety leading up to the race was too intense. I think this is the part I hate the most. Would get a sufficient warmup? Would I be late to the start? Would I be fit enough to keep up and get dropped? The virtual panic attack that started the night before a race was almost enough to keep me away.

&nbsp;In April, I decided I had enough of the cold here in Milton, ON, and packed up and joined the Real Deal team down at Speedweek. The only thing I really wanted was to ride in the warm where the number of layers was not an issues. Florida, the month before, was not long enough - only a week. I had signed up for the Athens Twilight completely forgetting that that course has a nasty hit in it - once per lap. Riding in the warm weather in and around Athens, GA and then watching the Pros race the night before the Twilight crit was alot of fun. The night of the Twilight crit, I was a mess, and didn't sleep might. The same worries got in my head. Some of that went away because the course took an extra hour to be prep'd, but I had not idea what to expect. The race didn't go well. I couldn't not climb at the pace of the other riders. 40km/h up hill I was travelling, but everyone else was doing 45km/h. That race saw the pros do 1000m of climbing over their 80 laps. I had to content with some 15 laps. I didn't manage to finish. However, something did happen. I found a little determination. I got popped because of the climb. I needed to work on climbing.

So, I signed up with Zwift and proceeded to work on climbing virtually in cyberspace. I managed to get fast bring my PR's in Zwift the more I rode their hills. When the good weather came about, I decided to dedicate Wednesdays to hill repeats day about same time the Milton Bike Club did. I started doing their hilly ride. All five hills of the Rattlesnake Point here in Milton we did and I got faster on the climbs and managed to figure out how to smooth out my pedal stroke to make climbing faster...which hard the overall effect of making my pedalling more efficient.

Still, racing. Meh. Didn't care. I didn't do the first Ontario CUP race of the season: Calibogie. Too far for what the previous year was a fast paced group ride in my category. I figured I could do that here with Milton Bike Club and save the money. It was wet and ugly at the Springbank Crit and decided to save my money. I bought the season's pass for the Midweek Crit thinking I would do that....and I did. I finished it once. I just could not get excited about that. Something about riding a course with effectively no corners is boring. I figured I'd wait for the Larkenville Challenge in Buffalo which is a proper four corner crit.

Since I decided I could climb hills, I decided to test that out on the Kitchener Waterloo Classic Road race: my only road race of the season. I guess I just hate being tested. I like to know what I can do. I could keep up the the Milton Bike Club boys through the hills of Milton. I can do the Toronto Donut Ride and take to the "rollers" at race pace without problems....but one hill on a race course. No idea. &nbsp;I was a nervous mess the day of the race...and didn't calm down until I managed to big ring it over that "hill" the first time in the race with the pack....and then I eventually got popped in the four lap when the pack accellerated on the back side of the course. So, I could climb hills, but I could not effectively "motorpace". So, I decided to take up motorpacing. I've had to learn that as the effort picks up, the idea is to pedal harder, and not necessarily faster.

This past week I think I determined how to get the racing bug to return: race a lot.

&nbsp;